Language over Race
Every human has unique markers of who they are, whether those be physical attributes or mental capabilities, making it difficult to group humans together. Our stark genetic individuality makes humans difficult to categorize by any physical or mental traits, so we must look to other markers of character. Communication is one of the most important things to human survival, so we place much importance on the ability of others to communicate with us. Every human communicates in a form of language, and because language is learned rather than inherited, conclusions drawn become more centered on the human rather than their genetic lineage. Language holds known qualities and has geographical, socioeconomic, and cultural markers, giving it the ability to communicate more concrete information about the speaker (signer/writer) than a more subjective trait like race. However, although we know of the irrationality of judging people based on subjective factors, we continue to avidly use race to identify people. Despite our use of race though, language defines a human more than the color of their skin because language is an objective skill and trait whereas race is subjective. 
Race is an arbitrary trait, so it is less useful to identify people than language is, but when humans do not have language as an identifier, we tend to cling to race. In his book, Born a Crime, Noah tells a story of him and his friend shoplifting chocolates, getting caught, and running away. Noahs friend Teddy was unable to escape, but Noah was, so the next day at school, Noah was brought to the principal's office and questioned about Teddys shoplifting accomplice. The event was recorded and Noah was caught on camera next to Teddy, but his color was washed out in the footage. The school staff grilled [him] for a good ten minutes, but only because they were so sure that [he] had to know who [the] white kid, on camera with Teddy, was (159). The staff was so fixated on the perceived race of the accomplice that they failed to notice that he and Noah had the same face. Noah was not caught for shoplifting with Teddy because the teachers and police were unable to value objective features such as his facial shape, nose, hair, etc. over the subjective marker of race. 
One can however, observe that, though race is valued above other physical traits, language is valued above race. When Noah was young, he and his mother went to a shop and the owner told the security guard in Afrikaans, assuming they would not understand, to follow them because they were black and would therefore steal. Noahs mother then responded to him in Afrikaans, informing him that the owner and guard should be helping them shop instead of watching them. The owner immediately apologized, saying, Oh, Im so sorry, [...] I thought you were like the other blacks, showing that he had regrouped Noah and his mother the moment he heard their language (55). While they were still black, because they knew the language of the owner, they became more akin to him than to other black people, leading him to strike his assumption that they would steal. Later in the same chapter, Noah details how he was able to avoid being mugged by Zulu men by speaking to them in their language. When approaching him from behind, they said, Lets get this white guy, but after Noah responded to them in Zulu, they apologized for targeting him and said, We were trying to steal from white people (56). They found him to be white because of his lighter skin tone, but once they found out that he spoke Zulu, they recategorized him to be nonwhite, demonstrating the importance of language trumping that of arbitrary race when grouping people. 
The importance of language over race is clear in Noahs book, but one must consider the possibility that language only trumps race when a common language is not expected. In South Africa there are eleven official languages, so it is not expected that everyone knows the same language (161). In America, it seems, common language is taken for granted because it is expected, yet one can still observe the phenomenon of language over race in America where there is the expectation. People continue to categorize humans by race, but whereas in South Africa a common language increases ones status, in America a lack of common language decreases your status. A small distinction, but both reactions to a common language or lack thereof, demonstrate the importance of language when grouping people. It is certain, however, that language is valued over race in South Africa.?Road Curvature
Definition of Curvature: The definition of curvature is the rate of change in heading over a period of distance.
How Curvature can be Calculated from Data: The x and y values are coordinate points, so, longitude and latitude values from the map. S is the distance traveled between points while theta is the angle that is changing between points. Because we have x and y, we have the sides of the triangle that can be drawn with the hypotenuse being the distance between two points.
Delta s is the hypotenuse (distance between the points) while delta x and delta y are the other two sides. Theta is the angle between delta x and delta s. To find theta, we can use the inverse tangent of delta x and delta y and to find delta s, we can use the pythagorean theorem as we have the other two sides of the road. To find delta theta, first, we would have to do the same thing for the other points. Delta theta is the difference between two consecutive theta values.
Finally, we can find K, the turning rate, which is delta theta / delta s.
Link to Spreadsheet (Data):
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bKfTzfoRUopgK1H4b-6G5hTQTLfbTytNxcyMSXTUu Uo/edit?usp=sharing
Choice of Road: Stelvio Pass
The actual distance from Point A to Point B (when you dont take the road) is only 0.5 miles. My approximation for the distance between Point A and Point B (when you do take the road) is about 3-ish miles.
Why I picked this: Honestly, I picked Stelvio Pass because I looked up the curviest roads in the world and Stelvio Pass was one of them. Stelvio Pass is located in the Alps, which Ive actually
been to, and when I was looking at pictures of it, I thought it was really pretty. Here is what it looks like in real life:
Summary of Average Curvature of Road: You can take the average of the curvature of the road (delta theta tangent / delta s). What I got was around 18253. The turning rate, or the radius of the circle that hugs the curve would be r = 1/K or r = 1/average. Thus, inputting my value for the average into this equation, I would get that the turning rate of Average K = 1/18253. This is in the unit of latitude degrees and when you convert it to meters, you get 6.09 m, which means the average of the road is pretty curvy.
How to Improve Calculation: One way to improve calculations is to smooth the data out. When looking at your road on Google Maps, it would seem very jagged when in reality, the curves are not that pointed. So, to smooth the data out, you would take the averages for both the x and y values of two values before and two values after (taking the average of 5). That smooths out the graph. You also have to remember to change delta x and delta y so that they use the smoothed out x and y values instead of the original values. You also have to remember to delete the last two values of the smoothed out x and y values and delete the last four values for the new delta x and delta y values (and consequently, the last four values for the rest of the columns after delta x and delta y).?Prompt Chosen: D. Noah asserts that language, even more than color, defines who you are to people(p. 56). Do you agree with Trevors assessment of the importance of language? What do his claims suggest about the power of language and the values placed on certain languages over others?
Sandor Jonas E300
Mari OMeara
In the life of Trevor Noah as recounted in his autobiographical novel, Born A Crime, his ability to fluently speak multiple native African languages like Xhosa, Tswana and Tsonga alongside English and Afrikaans, allow him to navigate situations in which his race would have otherwise proven as too much of a barrier to overcome. I agree with Trevors assessment of the importance of language, and I also agree that speaking the language commonly spoken by the upper class and to be able to talk like them too can provide incredible opportunities of mobility for someone born into a lower class that are otherwise extremely rare to find.
The ability to speak English, more than any other language, can allow for communication with those that wield economic power in most of the world. Throughout his book, Trevor brings up many times he can directly recall that knowing how to communicate effectively via language has saved him or his mother. For example, when the owner of a shoe store they are shopping in asks the guard to follow them in Afrikaans but Trevors mom is able to understand and respond in Afrikaans, bridging the gap between her and the shopkeeper which allows her to defuse the situation. This is a good example of the power that language has to form a connection between two people that otherwise would have never been possible due to the language barrier, but this doesnt directly show how language can create mobility in the lower class. In chapter 5: The Second Girl, Trevor Noah describes his mothers childhood as it has been told in stories to him by his mother. She grew up extremely poor, he mentions how she oftentimes had to steal food scraps from the pigs just to eat and at times had to eat clay mixed with water just in order to feel
full. Despite all of these hardships, his mother was able to raise him with far more opportunities than she had herself, he explains that in the following quote my mother was blessed that her village was one of the places where a mission school had contrived to stay open in spite of the government's bantu education policies. There she had a white pastor who taught her English. She didnt have food or shoes or even a pair of underwear, but she had english. She could read and write(65). With her ability to speak, read and write English, she was able to get a job at a sewing machine that allowed her to take a secretarial course and become a secretary, making more money than anyone else in her family. Her knowledge of English gave her the opportunity to get an education which then allowed to get a job that broke through the barrier of economic status she was born into. This shows how language can serve as an oppressive tool because all those who didnt speak English where she came from had little to no opportunities at all regardless of how hard they worked, but when one can break this barrier and become educated, it becomes possible to escape such oppression.
One of the main themes of the book is clashing of races and Trevor and his moms ability to navigate a system under an aparthied and post apartheid government as a black mother with a colored son. Language is a key tool used by Patricia and taught to Trevor that he highlights as one of the most powerful things that allowed them to lead the bold lives that they did. They were empowered by their knowledge of language in South Africa and this afforded them the ability to seek freedoms that most others in their situation would never have had.?Finding One of the Worlds Curviest Roads
Camilo Tamayo-Rousseau
The world has many curvy roads, but how can we find exactly how curvy they are? In this paper, we will figure out a method for calculating the curvature of a road and apply it to one of the curviest roads in the world. The calculations can be found in this Google Sheets: Road Curvature Calculus
Defining Curvature
	Straightness and curviness are opposites of each other; the curvier a road, the less straight it will be and vice versa. Circles are useful for defining straightness and curviness because, depending on how large they are, circles can be very straight or can be very curvy; small circles are more curvy than large circles because they bend more sharply. To help define the curvature at a point with circles, a circle with a fitting radius (which we talk about later) can be drawn at a point on the curve. Then the curvature can be found based on the radius of the circle.
	To figure out how to find the curvature based on the circles radius we first must think about the relationship between the curvature and the radius. As the radius of the circle increases, the curvature should approach zero but never reach zero. This is because as the circles radius approaches infinity, the circle appears as if it was a straight line. On the other hand, when the radius of a circle approaches zero, the curvature should approach infinity because the smaller a circle is, the more sharply the curve bends. Based on this relationship between curvature and radius, we can create a more precise definition of curvature () as a function of the radius ():  .Calculating Curvature
	To apply the curvature function to a road, we first must be able to find the radius of the circle that is tangent to the road. This road is defined by a series of points which we can use to calculate the properties of a circle. More specifically, we can use the change in distance (?s) and angle between two points (??) to calculate the circumference of the circle, angle at the center of the circle, and therefore the radius. 
Since , this means that . So, to find the curvature from a series of points (which represents a road), we can calculate  and . Finally, we can input those values into the function for .
Finding the Curvature of a Road
	To find a curvy road, I looked at mountainous areas of the world because roads with a significant change in elevation should be curvy as curvy roads are effective at changing the vertical elevation of a car. An examination of Mount Everest (the mountain with the highest elevation in the world) and its surrounding region helped me find many curvy roads. Specifically, I chose an unnamed road in Nepal about 54 miles south of Mount Everest. 	Using Google My Maps, I obtained a set of 3594 points that represent the road. Once I had these points, I found a value for  for each point.
Results
	The average curvature for the road was 4905 which means that on average, the turning radius was 22.7 meters. However, simply averaging the curvature of all the points is not a very accurate way of representing the overall curvature of the data set. This is because each point is not evely spaced on the road and some points help represent a larger portion of the road than others. To get a better average, we can weigh each point differently based on the distance between it and the following point (this distance is ). Then, an improved average can be calculated by taking the integral of  with respect to  and dividing this by the road length (sum of ): . The integral can be calculated using rectangleseach with dimensions and summing the total area of the rectangles.The road lengththe sum of all is 71 miles. After using this improved average, the average curvature becomes 1622 which means that the average turning radius is 69 meters. In comparison, the famously curvy Lombard Street has an average turning radius of 13.7 meters. However, this comparison is slightly unfair because Lombard Street is not a road that is meant for practical use and is only 0.11 miles long while this road is 67 miles long.
Calculation Accuracy and Error
	Theoretically, we should be able to reconstruct the road from the areas of the rectangles that we used to calculate . We can find the amount of error in our improved average calculations by finding how similar the reconstructed road is to the original road.
	The reconstructed road looks nothing like the original road. This is because the road was reconstructed using the curvature which is a scalar value and doesnt give any direction. To give the curvature a direction for the reconstruction of the road, we can simply remove the absolute value so that . Furthermore, the final step of the calculation of adding the sums of the integrals to the initial position was not correct for this road. This is because the order of the original points that represented the road did not (generaly) go from left to right but instead went from right to left. So instead of adding the integrals to the x0 and y0, the integrals should be subtracted from x0 and y0. After improving this reconstruction, the road looks more similar to the original road.However, the reconstructed road appears much flatter than the original which shows that there were some errors in calculating the improved average curvature/radius.
The way that we defined the road also introduced more error into the calculation; there were only 3594 points to represent a 67 mile road (length according to Google Maps). To find how accurate our representation of the road was, we can approximate the length of the road and compare that to the actual length. To approximate the length we can add up the distances between each point (); this results in a value of 71 miles. The percent error between this approximation and the actual length is 6.2% which contributed to some error in the calculations.?Historia
La regin de Castilla y Len est en el norte oeste de Espaa. La consiste en una meseta con un promedio de 760 metros, que se llama Meseta Central. Montaas rodean la meseta aparte de la frontera con Portugal, y el ro Duero biseca la regin este a oeste. La meseta es afortunada ya que la tierra es naturalmente frtil. Desafortunadamente, la poblacin de Castilla y Len haba disminuido recientemente, y la mayora de personas viven en ciudades ms grandes como Valladolid, Burgos, Len, y Salamanca. Castilla y Len es importante para la historia de Espaa porque forma Espaa moderna. 
El lugar que es Castilla y len moderna fue ocupado por varios poblaciones celtico como astures y celtibrico. Es probable que la presencia de celtas en Iberia data del siglo IX A. C. pero no sabemos con certeza. Los romanos llegaron a la regin durante la segunda guerra pnica en el siglo II A.C. y adjuntaron la regin despus de dos siglos de enfrentamiento con tribus ibricas y cltica, y colonias de griegos, cartagins, y fenicios. Durante el periodo de los romanos, la regin de Castilla y Len con la mitad oriental de la Pennsula Ibrica fue la provincia de Tarraconensis en el Imperio romano. Hasta la fecha, el impacto de los romanos en la regin vimos en la arquitectura como los acueductos de Segovia Va de la Plata que conecta Mrida en el norte a Astorga. Despues de la cada del imperio romano, fue un periodo de ocupacin militar por los Visigodos que derrotaron a los romanos en la batalla de Adrianpolis en 378. En 474, fue el comienzo de la invasin musulmana y los se quedaron en el centro y sur de Espaa. Durante el siglo VII fue el proceso de reconquista cuando los rabes y cristianos lucharon por el control de Espaa, hasta el siglo XIII. Expediciones al nuevo mundo en siglo XV de Cristbal Coln, Juan Ponce de Leon y Hernando de Soto comienzan de Castilla y Len, donde vivi la familia real. 
El Pacto de Tortosa (1869) fue un proyecto de organizacin creado despus de la muerte de la Reina Isabella II para redefinir la regin de Castilla y el nuevo rgimen. Este es el comienzo de la regin de Castilla y Len moderna. Este pacto parti la regin en dos provincias; Castilla la Vieja incluy Avila, Burgos, Len, Segovia, Valladolid y ms, lo que es ahora Castilla y Len.  La otra parte fue Castilla la Nueva, con Madrid, Toledo, Guadalajara y ms, que se llama Castilla La Mancha hoy. Con la Guerra Civil en los 1930, Espaa parti en los que apoyaron  la monarqua catlica o Espaa. Esta guerra adems de Espaa franquista condujo a Castilla y Len pidiendo autonoma de Estado Espaol.
Arquitectura
Segovia muestra la historia complicada de Castilla y Len por su diseo urbano y arquitectura. La organizacin de los barrios, calles, y casas en Segovia est basada en la estructura social de diferentes comunidades en varios tiempos. Por ejemplo, los moros, christianos y judios coexisten por muchos aos y tenan que trabajar juntos durante la revolucin industrial para sobrevivir. Podemos ver evidencia de estas culturas en los monumentos como el acueducto romano, Alczar del siglo XI, y catedrales gticas del siglo XVI. 
El acueducto en Segovia fue construido por los romanos y es uno de los acueductos ms conservados en el mundo. Durante el siglo I AC, los romanos usaban el Ro Fro para suministrar agua a muchos pueblos como Segovia. Su estructura es aproximadamente 30 metros en altura y extenda 14 kilmetros de valles y colinas al fuente de agua. El material de acueducto es el granito, que fue usado para pilares, arcos y paredes. A pesar de la edad del acueducto, la estructura se ha mantenido estable debido a su profundo fundamento. Pero, el acueducto no es solamente un recordatorio del pasado porque el acueducto fue usado hasta el siglo XIX y provey trabajo para muchos residentes. Ahora, es una caracterstica de Segovia que atrae turistas de todo el mundo.  
Alczar ahora es una fortaleza medieval de piedra en la parte antigua de la ciudad. Actualmente, el origen del castillo es debatido, pero sabemos que fue construido durante muchos siglos y por varias culturas. Segn muchos historiadores, el primer edificio fue construido por la dinasta de bereber almorvide, pero poco del edificio original fue conservado. Las primeras referencias al castillo fueron de 1120 A.D., 32 aos despus de que la ciudad fuera conquistada por cristianos durante la reconquista. Podemos concluir que durante la era de musulmanes la estructura fue solamente una fortaleza de madera construida encima de cimientos romanos. En el siglo 13, Alczar fue el lugar favorito de la familia real y el Rey Juan II contribuy a la fortaleza con una torre gtica. Fueron muchas renovaciones del castillo durante el Rey Felipe II en 1587 y 1839 despus de un incendio. Por eso, Alczar es una fusin de muchos estilos como romnico, gtico (de la Edad Media), y herreriano (hecho durante Felipe II) en el exterior. Tambin el interior es decorado en estilo mudjar por pintores rabes en periodo medieval. 
La catedral de Segovia es una catedral gtica con rasgos renacentistas en el centro de la ciudad en Plaza Mayor. El comienzo de construccin fue en 1525 en un estilo gtico tardo, y es una de las catedrales gticas ms tardas de Europa. La catedral anterior fue adyacente a Alczar, y usada por el ejrcito real para defender el castillo. En la Guerra de Comunidades de Castilla, ciudadanos de Castilla se levantaron contra Carlos I en 1520 y asediaron la catedral. En un par de meses, la catedral se arruin. Por estos hechos, el nuevo catedral fue reubicado lejos de Alczar, y construido usando el diseo de Juan Gil de Hontanon, un albail. Un rasgo de la catedral son las bvedas gticas, 33 metros de altura. El retablo mayor fue tallado por Francisco Sabattini y dedicado a la Virgen de la Paz que vimos en las vtreas tambin.
Religion
Sources
Works Cited
Catedral de Segovia  Catedral de Segovia, https://catedralsegovia.es/. Accessed 26 May 2022.
Acueducto de Segovia: historia y caractersticas. Fundacin Aquae, https://www.fundacionaquae.org/ciudad-vieja-y-acueducto-de-segovia/. Accessed 26 May 2022.
Aqueduct of Segovia. World Monuments Fund, https://www.wmf.org/project/aqueduct-segovia. Accessed 26 May 2022.
Cherrygarden, Fred. Alczar de Segovia  Segovia, Spain. Atlas Obscura, 11 May 2020, https://www.atlasobscura.com/places/alcazar-de-segovia. Accessed 26 May 2022.
? Cmo lleg el catolicismo a Espaa? | Actualizado mayo 2022. Subvenciones, 29 January 2022, https://subvenciones.info/ayudas/como-llego-el-catolicismo-a-espana/. Accessed 26 May 2022.
A journey through the historical and architectural heritage of Castilla y Leon | spain.info in english. Spain.info, https://www.spain.info/en/top/castilla-leon-journey-time/. Accessed 26 May 2022.
La Historia de Espaa: desde los moros a la actualidad. Sites@Duke, https://sites.duke.edu/wcwp/tournament-guides/mens-world-cup-2018-guide/argentina-espana-y-uruguay/la-roja-la-seleccion-espanola/la-historia-de-espana-desde-los-moros-a-la-actualidad/. Accessed 26 May 2022.
Lujn, Asun. Segovia, historia en piedra. Viajes National Geographic, 17 July 2013, https://viajes.nationalgeographic.com.es/a/segovia-historia-piedra_7424. Accessed 26 May 2022.
Montagut, Eduardo. El Pacto de Tortosa. Nueva Tribuna, 9 November 2017, https://www.nuevatribuna.es/articulo/historia/el-pacto-de-tortosa/20171108165334145111.html. Accessed 26 May 2022.
Old Town of Segovia and its Aqueduct. UNESCO World Heritage Centre, https://whc.unesco.org/en/list/311/. Accessed 26 May 2022.
Rodriguez, Vicente. Castile-Len | region, Spain | Britannica. Encyclopedia Britannica, https://www.britannica.com/place/Castile-Leon. Accessed 26 May 2022.
Segovia - Datos, grficos y estadsticas sobre el municipio. EpData, 11 December 2021, https://www.epdata.es/datos/datos-graficos-estadisticas-municipio/52/segovia/6800. Accessed 26 May 2022.
Vzquez, David, and Lola Hernandez. Historia y Leyendas de Castilla y Len. Destino Castilla y Len, https://destinocastillayleon.es/index/category/rutas-2/historia-rutas-2/. Accessed 26 May 2022.
https://www.britannica.com/place/Castile-Leon
https://whc.unesco.org/en/list/311/
https://www.wmf.org/project/aqueduct-segovia
?George Hosein
9/30/21
Pages 68-76
Human dreams range from the mundane to the fantastical to the bizarre. People throughout time have wondered where dreams come from, why they happen, if they mean anything, and what they mean. Some people claim that symbols in dreams have very specific meanings and that by analyzing dreams, we can better understand ourselves and what we need to do. Modern scientists are split on the issues. Some believe that dreams happen to help us with anxiety. Others think that we dream to prune memories. One popular theory states that dreams are caused by our brain trying to create something cohesive out of completely random inputs we get while sleeping. There are many critics of this theory. They argue that a random process could never create such complex and vivid dreams as we experience. They also state that because our brains have to physically stop us from acting out our dreams, the random theory would make dreams dangerous. Something this dangerous and worthless would most likely be cut out from the gene pool a long time ago. Furthermore, they think that because animals also dream, it is unlikely that dreaming is caused by random inputs. The author argues that the simplest solution is that even when sleeping, humans cannot silence their inner storyteller. 
?Alex Lipson
Mari OMeara
E300: Narrative Nonfiction
21 January 2022
Religiousness as a Tool to Well-Being and Happiness in Different Countries
	Religion has been a fundamental binding agent in human civilization for centuries. In fact, the first prehistoric religions came into existence over fifty thousand years ago (Narr). Religion is still an important factor in human life today, with about eighty five percent of the world population being a part of a religious group (Religious Composition by Country). Given that religion is practiced by so many people, analysis of a variety of scholarly journal articles and data on religion and happiness can help illuminate the functional outcome of religion in society. Religions effect upon a society can be explored by observing its positive relation to happiness and well-being, in addition to examining the problems that arise when religion is restricted.
	Firstly, religion is a tool that aids in mental well-being. In Guatemala, there are many people living below the poverty line. In fact, Guatemala has the second-greatest level of poverty in the Americas (Dupraz-Dobias). To study this, Mara Ramrez-Luzuriag and others performed a study for BMC Psychology by analyzing, Vulnerable populations born in adverse environments that may restrict developmental potential (Ramrez-Luzuriaga et. al.). In their words, the study, Aimed to examine the cognitive and socioemotional correlates of psychological well-being and mental health in a cohort of Guatemalan adults born in contexts of poverty and malnutrition (Ramrez-Luzuriaga et al.). The researchers spoke with several hundred men and women, all of whom were in their forties and fifties and lived in, Four rural villages in eastern Guatemala and Guatemala City (Ramrez-Luzuriaga et al.). In addition to, Spirituality and religion, the team gathered data on, Psychological well-being, [...] emotional support, and executive function (Ramrez-Luzuriaga et al.). From their findings, despite the adverse conditions, high measurements of religion and spirituality correlated with high measurements of psychological well-being. As Ramrez-Luzuriaga and her fellow researchers noted, of all examined factors, spirituality and religion made the greatest contribution to psychological well-being. These findings support the notion that, in populations experiencing difficult circumstances, religion contributes to well-being and aid coping. (Ramrez-Luzuriaga et al.). So, despite the difficulties posed by poverty and malnutrition, strong connections to religion seem to aid in overall well-being and happiness.
Secondly, more understanding of religion and happiness can be gained from the numerous data sets that have been conducted on happiness and religiosity within countries around the world. Two partner research organizations, World Happiness Report and Gallup, have produced datasets on religiosity and happiness. In 2009, Gallup surveyed the question, Is religion important in your daily life? (Gallup WorldView). The top five countries who valued religion the most were Bangladesh, Niger, Oman, Somalia, and Sri Lanka. Each country had nearly one hundred percent of respondents say that religion was important to their daily lives (Gallup WorldView). In addition, the countries with the lowest importance of religion in their daily lives were: Sweden and Denmark. Both had more than eighty percent of respondents claim that religion is not important to their daily lives. Also, Norway and Estonia had almost eighty percent of negative responses. In contrast to the previous notion that high religiosity equates to happiness, the Scandinavian countries of Sweden, Denmark, and Norway, were, in fact, in the top ten happiest countries in 2021 despite their position that religion is not important (World Happiness Report). To universalize the quantification of happiness, the World Happiness Report measures happiness on a scale called the Cantril ladder. The scale, Asks respondents to think of a ladder, with the best possible life for them being a 10, and the worst possible life being a 0. They are then asked to rate their own current lives on that 0 to 10 scale (World Happiness Report). According to the happiness report, the least happy countries in 2021 were: Lesotho, Botswana, Rwanda, Zimbabwe, and Afghanistan. Afghanistan had the lowest score in the world, of about two point five. Lesotho was the highest of the group, with a score of slightly over three point five (World Happiness Report). Furthermore, Afghanistan, Rwanda, and Zimbabwe were all very religious countries according to the 2009 Gallup poll, with Afghanistan and Rwanda having about ninety-seven and ninety-five percent of people who claimed that religion was important to their daily lives respectively (Gallup WorldView). So, again, in contrast to the previous observations that showed high religiosity results in happiness, these countries are both very religious, yet, in comparison to the Scandinavian countries, very unhappy.
Furthermore, the most religious countriesof those that had data in the happiness reportof Niger, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka, had happiness scores of about five, five, and four point three respectively (World Happiness Report). In terms of ranking, Niger and Bangladesh rank close to one hundredth out of one hundred and forty-nine countries in the survey (Gallup WorldView). So, even if religion is extremely important to the people of these countries daily lives, their happiness score does not reflect it. 
To summarize and evaluate these findings, while the happiest countries happen to be the least religious, they are also quite wealthy. The most religious countries, while being unhappy, are also very poor. And, it seems that the reason for the increased religiousness of these countries is to aid in well-being and happiness despite the impoverished conditions. As author for Gallup, Steve Crabtree writes about the Gallup religiosity dataset, Religion plays a more functional role in the world's poorest countries, helping many residents cope with a daily struggle to provide for themselves and their families (Crabtree). Concluding from these data, even though religion is not important in wealthy countries, it is an effective tool at providing happiness in poor countries.
	Next, the suppression of religious freedom, especially because of the enforcement of a single religion, is not beneficial for happiness nor well-being. A prime example of religious suppression in favor of a single, unifying religion, is the Kim regime of North Korea. North Korea is one of the few dictatorships in the world today. Author  Fransiskus Widjaja and others write about the development of the Juche ideology in North Korea for HTS Teologiese Studies journal. Widjaja summarizes the situation in the country as, North Korea is a communist country dictated by Kim Jong-Un of the Kim dynasty and known for its cruelty (Widjaja et. al.). Widjaja describes Juche ideology as, a tool the state has used to convince people of their government [...] The North Koreans were made to worship Kim with Juche, [meaning self-reliance,] as the political philosophy of a ruling government. However, it was transformed into religion because the people believed that the ruler (Kim Il Sung) [was] not elected; instead, he is a supreme human (Widjaja et. al.). So, Juche transformed from just the political system of dictatorship, to the religion of worshiping the dictator himself. Widjaja also makes comparisons about how Juche was developed and influenced by several different ideologies, such as Confucianism, Christianity, Nationalism, Chinese Communism, and Russian Communism. However, Juche has departed from the anti-religious doctrines of communism. Widjaja describes the transition in that, Juche has become a major religious force that has maneuvered North Korea to replace traditional Marxist communism (Widjaja et. al.). While North Korea is not communist, the country suppresses all religions other than Juche just as a communist nation would. Widjaja notes, When [the North Korean people] started honoring Kim as their god, no other religion was permitted (Widjaja et. al.). So, with the establishment of the Juche religion, religious freedom was suppressed.
As aforementioned, enforcing the single religion of Juche is the tool that allows the Kim Regime to maintain control and also the oppression of their people. A study by Jess Crespo Cuaresma and others uses proxy measurements, such as satellite light level readings in order to estimate poverty levels in North Korea. The study estimated a poverty rate of about sixty percent in 2018 (Crespo Cuaresma et al.). In addition, eighty thousand to one hundred and twenty thousand people are estimated to be in prison camps (North Korea: How Many Political Prisoners). While North Korea was not measured in the 2021 World Happiness Report, it can be asserted that, based upon the poverty rate and imprisoned population, a significant amount of North Korean residents are not happy. However, these residents are forced to remain in the unhappy situation due to the religious doctrine of dictator-worship, Juche, that is imposed upon them.
Furthermore, on the topic of the restriction of religion, there can be conflicts between legislation and religion. In this case, the region of North Kosovo, with a dual administrative system, has incompatible legislation on many protocols, including Covid-19 management. Author for the Journal of Comparative Politics, Anela orevic from Slovenia, writes about the situation of dual administrations, which are also called contested territories, 
In contested territories, fighting the pandemics, such as the one caused by COVID-19, is even more difficult, because people often receive contradicting instructions from each of the competing authorities. This leaves many people puzzled or even anxious, because they are not certain which measures they are supposed to respect (orevic).
The dual administrations of North Kosovo, the Republic of Serbia and the government of Kosovo, are divided not only politically, but also ethnically as well. These ethnic groups also have their own respective religious practices. The majority of the country of Kosovo, over ninety-five percent, are Sunni Muslims (Alexe). However, in the region of North Kosovo, the majority group are Orthodox Catholic Serbians (Mbogoni).
Initially, neither of the two administrations of North Kosovo imposed any restrictions on religious gatherings. orevic claims that this is because of two main issues, Kosovo is a post-conflict territory where the wounds of war are still fresh, which is why little is needed to spark tensions. This means that residual divisions still lie between ethnic groups and the restriction of religious practice could, according to orevic, further disrupt already bad interethnic relations, and thus greatly prevent an attempt to reach a certain political solution for this territory (orevic). Later, restrictions on religious gatherings were imposed (orevic).
So, as a result of the ban on religious practices, in addition to other conflicting legislation due to mixed signals from the dual administrations, the Serbian population in North Kosovo became upset with their government. orevic noted that, a survey conducted [by Marinkovic et. al.] in 2019 showed that 88.7 percent of the total number of surveyed people of Serbian ethnicity living in Kosovo point out that there is no political representative of the Serbian ethnic group in Kosovo that they trust (orevic). The fact that an extreme majority of Serbians in Kosovo mistrust their representatives indicates there are problems, both with the tumultuous nature of North Kosovos dual administration, but also with the restriction of freedoms, such as religion.
In conclusion, religion is observed to have a positive effect on societal well-being and happiness; in addition, the restriction of religion has the opposite effect. While religion does indeed have a positive relation to well-being, it is a tool most effectively used to augment happiness by the worlds poorest nations. Happy countries, on the other hand, do not need religious faith, in order to obtain happiness, because their basic needs are already met. However, as seen in the case of Guatemala, when people are bereft of their basic needs, they turn to religion in order to find happiness. When religion is restricted, however, especially in otherwise tumultuous circumstances such as the Kim regime or the pandemic-stricken region of North Kosovo, people are not able to benefit from the happiness provided by religion. So, because of its ability to maintain happiness in otherwise difficult circumstances, it is no wonder that religion has been with humans for the past fifty thousand years.Works Cited
Alexe, Dan. The Influence of Sufi Islam in the Balkans. EUobserver, 1 Dec. 2010, https://euobserver.com/news/31390. Accessed Jan 9 2022.
Crabtree, Steve. Religiosity Highest in World's Poorest Nations. Gallup News, Gallup, 31 Aug. 2010, https://news.gallup.com/poll/142727/religiosity-highest-world-poorest-nations.aspx. Accessed Jan 8 2022.
This article draws conclusions on how religious nations are also impoverished, while non religious nations have a higher GDP and better living conditions. Despite noting the poverty, this article provides a supporting point to this papers thesis, by showing that religion is used in poorer countries in order to help keep people happy. The author of this article, Steve Crabtree, has a masters in survey research and methodology and a doctorate in public policy. He has been analyzing international survey data for thirteen years at Gallup and is the lead editor of Gallup's State of the Global Workplace reports. While this data is from 2009, given that this survey is about the culture of a country, it is likely that the general results of the survey have not changed in the past thirteen years.
Crespo Cuaresma, Jess, et. al.  What do we know about poverty in North Korea? Palgrave Commun vol. 6, no. 40, 17 Mar. 2020, https://doi.org/10.1057/s41599-020-0417-4. Accessed Jan 19 2022.
orevic, Anela, and Rok Zupancic. "Everyday Anxieties in a Divided Society at the time of Covid-19: Consequences of the Dual Legal and Administrative System in the North of Kosovo. Journal of Comparative Politics, vol. 15, no. 1, 2022, pp. 39-55. ProQuest, https://ezproxy.spl.org/login?url=https://search.proquest.com/pqrl?accountid=1135?url=https://www.proquest.com/scholarly-journals/everyday-anxieties-divided-society-at-time-covid/docview/2608498471/se-2. Accessed 4 Jan 2022. 
Anela orevic, in addition to several others, as part of the University of Ljubljanas Faculty of Social Sciences, writes for the Journal of Comparative Politics. He seeks to inform a learned audience about the shortcomings of the dual administrative systems of North Kosovo, in particular with regards to their poor handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. This article was published very recently and the information taken from this article is an unbiased account of the governments actions on the prohibition of gatherings, both religious and otherwise, during the pandemic. In addition to these facts, the article provides some insight on the emotional state of the residents of North Kosovo, and it references some surveys on the peoples satisfaction with their government. This article is connected to the thesis of this paper in showing that, upon the restriction of the freedom of religious gathering, the residents of North Kosovo were further dissatisfied by the pandemic legislation of their dual administration.
Dupraz-Dobias, Paula. COVID-19 Compounds a Long List of Problems in Guatemala. The New Humanitarian, 4 May 2020, https://www.thenewhumanitarian.org/feature/2020/05/04/coronavirus-Guatemala-violence-drought-poverty. Accessed 4 Jan 2022.
Gallup WorldView. Gallup Analytics, Gallup, 2009, https://www.gallup.com/analytics/213617/gallup-analytics.aspx. Accessed Jan 8 2022.
Marinkovic, Miodrag, Milo Timotijevic and Senka Kostic. Trend analysis 2019: Attitudes of the Serbian Community in Kosovo. NGO Aktiv, 2019, PDF, http://ngoaktiv.org/uploads/files/Trend%20Analysis%202019.pdf. Accessed 6 Jan 2022.
Mbogoni, Margaret. Kosovo Population and Housing Census 2011- Final Results: Quality Report. Census Knowledge Base, 2011, https://web.archive.org/web/20211118121917/https://unstats.un.org/unsd/censuskb20/KnowledgebaseArticle10700.aspx. Accessed Jan 8 2022.
Narr, Karl. "Prehistoric Religion". Encyclopedia Britannica, 14 Apr. 2021, https://www.britannica.com/topic/prehistoric-religion. Accessed 13 January 2022.
Ramrez-Luzuriaga, Mara J., et al. "Cognitive and Socio-emotional Correlates of Psychological Well-being and Mental Health in Guatemalan Adults." BMC Psychology, vol. 9, no. 1, 23 Sept. 2021, Gale Academic OneFile, link.gale.com/apps/doc/A676607838/AONE?u=spl_main&sid=bookmark-AONE&xid=bdf12d70. Accessed 4 Jan 2022.
This article, written by Mara Ramrez-Luzuriaga and co-authors, for the peer-reviewed BMC Psychology Journal in September of 2021, summarizes a study done by the authors about factors of well-being in impoverished populations in Guatemala. Ramrez-Luzuriaga has a PhD in nutrition and health sciences and is currently working as a postdoctoral fellow at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. The study was conducted from 2017 to 2019 and gathered data on psychological well-being, spirituality and religion, emotional support, and executive function. The article included statistical analysis showing that religion and spirituality were the most influential factors to well-being and happiness in the poor populations, supporting this papers thesis.
North Korea: How Many Political Prisoners Are Detained in Prison? BBC News, BBC, 10 May 2018, www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-44069749. Accessed Jan 19 2022.
Religious Composition by Country, 2010-2050. Pew Research Center, 2 Apr. 2015, www.pewforum.org/2015/04/02/religious-projection-table/2020/number/all/. Accessed Jan 13 2022.
Widjaja, Fransiskus I., et al. "The Religious Phenomenon of Juche Ideology as a Political Tool." HTS Teologiese Studies, vol. 77, no. 4, 1 Oct. 2021, Gale Academic OneFile, link.gale.com/apps/doc/A661445709/AONE?u=spl_main&sid=bookmark-AONE&xid=d9d2cbd0. Accessed 5 Jan 2022.
This article, written by Fransiskus Widjaja, a doctor of theology and current member of the Asian Theology Association of Jakarta, and others for the peer-reviewed South African HTS Teologiese Studies journal, illuminates the history and development of the Juche ideology of North Korea. The article describes how the Kim regime of North Korea restricts religious freedom and enforces the Juche religion of worshiping their dictator as a god. This information builds upon the idea that restricting other religions in favor of a single one, in addition to North Koreas other cruelties to its people, contributes to their oppression of freedoms.
World Happiness Report 2021. World Happiness Report, 2021, https://happiness-report.s3.amazonaws.com/2021/DataPanelWHR2021C2.xls. Accessed Jan 6 2022.
?Altea Bulajewski
Mari OMeara
E300: Narrative Nonfiction
13 January 2022
The Cold War and the Korean War: Chinese, Soviet, and US Involvement
	The Korean War has long been a source of political controversy and intrigue. It affected various countries and is widely regarded by experts as having had significant influence on the beginnings of the Cold War. To understand the reasoning and beginning of the Cold War, the Korean War is a key event in history to highlight. When exploring the development of the Cold War in relation to the Korean War, it is necessary to analyze increasing tensions between the Soviet Union and the United States, and to identify the effects of Chinese influence that led to the Korean War.
For the United States, Korea was a pawn in the struggle against global Communism, especially in the East. After China had become a Communist state, Communist-fearing hysteria spread quickly throughout the United States in the 1950s. American leadership began to fear the effects of Communism on the rest of the world, and the supposed global chokehold it could potentially come to have. Their fear of the spread of Communism was essentially the only reason why the US chose to enter the Korean War, since
Truman and his advisors found themselves under increased domestic pressure not to appear "soft" on communism abroad. Thus, when North Korean troops invaded the South, the Truman administration seized upon the opportunity to defend a non-communist government from invasion by communist troops. Determined not to "lose" another country to communism, and interested in shoring up its anticommunist credentials, the Truman administration found itself defending a nation a world away from U.S. soil, 
and unknowingly setting the stage for the Cold War (US Enters the Korean). The United States projected their fears of global communism onto Korea, and took the chance to support their own capitalist values through proxy war. 
	The United States was not the only country involved in the Korean War to attempt to utilize Korea for their own political benefit. The Soviet Union needed to spread Communism throughout the East, and Korea was a valuable geopolitical asset. Russia had intended to take control of Korea since the 19th century, a relatively easy feat due to its close proximity to the country. The Soviet Union intended to assist North Korea in setting up their own Communist government, and selected Kim Il-Sung as leader, as they thought he would best support Communism in Asia. American fears about Communism spreading from the Soviet into the rest of the East turned out to be rooted in fact, and, From the beginning of the Cold War, America saw Soviet attempts to control Korea in regional and global terms (Campbell).  The main goal of the Soviet Union during the Korean War was to ensure that the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea, or DPRK, would stay in power, as it would be a valuable political asset against the United States in the upcoming war, and in future political conflicts. The Soviet Union utilized the Korean War as a way to express their superiority over the rest of the world, and the superiority of communism as a whole. The division of the Koreas was a historical representation of the divide between capitalism and communism, orchestrated by both the United States and Soviet Union.
	The Korean War introduced an additional threat of a war between the US and China in the eyes of Chairman Mao. He feared that spillover from a US win of the Korean War would affect China, causing the United States to attempt to conquer Communism in the East all at once, and was afraid that the United States meant to proceed past the Korean border and make war on China. Although later relations would sour between Communist China and the Soviet Union, at that time Mao was still a close ally of the Soviets. He came under pressure from Stalin to react to the U.S. threat. In October 1950, China sent troops to help North Korea, and began their intervention in the Korean War. (The Korean War Begins) Maos fear that the Korean War would continue into China caused him to enter the war, effectively bringing about the countrys involvement regardless of the actions of the United States. This choice would go on to cause the Sino-Soviet split, and create significant challenges for the country during the Cold War. 
	While China entered the Korean War for self-preservation, it exited the war with a new Communist ally: North Korea. Having another neighboring country with similar values in the East was an excellent payoff for such a war. Chinese intervention was necessary to the outcome of the war, said outcome being a lack of reunification of the Koreas. This Chinese-North Korean allyship caused Mao to consider, the war to be a success and victory for the nation. In his opinion, the interference strengthened Chinas security and defense. The Korean War was officially celebrated by Mao and the CCP leadership as a great success and a victory over the threat of US imperialism, as well as the birth of a Communist neighbor. (Becker) While the United States entered the war as an attempt to combat the reach of global Communism, China entered the war for what was essentially the same reason, except with Capitalism. With the cementing of North Korea as an independent nation from South Korea, all countries involved felt as if they had lost out, only partially achieving their respective goals.
	Chinese and Soviet involvement with the Korean War strongly connects these countries with the Cold War, and sets the stage for the very existence of the Cold War in later years. The Korean War provided the United States with an opportunity to assert their superiority over the Communist regimes of the East, and for those Communist regimes to attempt to exercise authority over the Capitalist superpower that was the United States. The Korean War set the stage for increased aggression between the United States and Soviet Union, and brought China into the tension as well. While the Korean War simply began as an issue of reunification and proxy war, it set the stage for a decade-long global conflict that would come to affect millions of people.
Works Cited
Becker, Stefanie. Cold War in Asia: Chinas Involvement in the Korean and Vietnam War... - Ku Scholarworks, 2015, https://kuscholarworks.ku.edu/bitstream/handle/1808/19013/Becker_ku_0099M_14077_DATA_1.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y Accessed: 13 January 2022
This thesis from Stefanie Becker, for her graduate degree in East Asian Languages and Culture at the University of Kansas, discusses the outcome of the Korean and Vietnam Wars for China. This thesis intends to compare and contrast these two wars. The paper was written in 2015, and it analyzes events that transpired 65 years prior. It is a historical analysis, and therefore provides as much objectivity as is possible for historical events. It provides historical clarity for the Korean War related to China, which is necessary for this paper, and like Gale Research Publishing Companys book, provides important details surrounding the effect of the Korean War on China. 
Campbell, Joel R. "The Wrong War: The Soviets and the Korean War, 1945-1953," International Social Science Review: Vol. 88, Iss. 3 Troy University, 2014, https://digitalcommons.northgeorgia.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1017&context=issr Accessed: 13 January 2022
Joel R. Campbells article in the Social Science Review, published in 2014, explains the reasoning and development of the Korean War from a Soviet perspective. Campbell intends to appeal to an audience of academics interested in the Social Sciences, as he is an Associate Professor of Political Science in the Pacific Region (Japan and Korea) at Troy University. As he is a professor specializing in the Pacific Region, he has an objective understanding of the historical events occurring throughout the region. While Beckers thesis attempts to achieve a similar goal, but with China, Campbells article focuses on the Soviet Union. This work includes significant details about the Soviet goals for entering the Korean War, providing excellent background for this paper.
The Korean War Begins: June 25, 1950. Global Events: Milestone Events throughout History. Gale, Cengage Learning, 2014, Global Issues in Context, https://go-gale-com.ezproxy.spl.org/ps/retrieve.do?tabID=Reference&resultListType=RESULT_LIST&searchResultsType=MultiTab&hitCount=35&searchType=AdvancedSearchForm&currentPosition=2&docId=GALE%7CEEASMU796090466&docType=Event+overview&sort=Relevance&contentSegment=ZGIR-MOD1&prodId=GIC&pageNum=1&contentSet=GALE%7CEEASMU796090466&searchId=R5&userGroupName=spl_main&inPS=true, Accessed: 13 January 2022
Gale Research Publishing Companys book details Chinese significance in the Korean War, along with an explanation of the reasons for Maos decision to enter the conflict and the effects it had on the rest of the war. The purpose of this book is for education, directed towards those without significant prior knowledge of global conflicts, and it was published 8 years ago. As this book was published to provide basic understanding of the history of the Korean War,  and it has less direct analysis than other sources used for this paper might, it includes very little bias. Gale Research Publishing Company provides more basic facts that include necessary information for this paper in their book.
US Enters the Korean Conflict. National Archives and Records Administration, National Archives and Records Administration, https://www.archives.gov/education/lessons/korean-conflict Accessed: 13 January 2022
This website, a part of the National Archives, provides factual information about events related to the United States, such as the Korean War. This section of National Archives is intended for educational purposes, including a lesson plan on the Korean Conflict. This page was last reviewed for accuracy last year. As it is intended for teachers in schools to provide instruction on the Korean War, it provides a certain level of objectivity thats necessary for such a situation. However, since the page is managed by a part of the US government, it is largely US-centric, and does not provide the whole picture of the Korean War, or nuanced analysis. For sources that analyze the events of the Korean War, Beckers thesis and Campbells article are more applicable. This work includes necessary information for the paper surrounding topics such as the US involvement in the Korean War. ?War on Science
Script
Terms and Origins
The war on science began as early as humans began practicing science. Science, defined in our case as the practice of the scientific method to gather information, is making sense of the world around us by means of observation and testing. Science says the right answer is the one that we can prove and reproduce.
One early example of a quarrel with science happened in Europe in the 1600s. Among the many peasants and farmers, we meet Isaac Newton1a, an English scientist. Newton, and surprisingly, completely separately but at the same time, the German scientist Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz1b, landed upon a revolutionary idea in mathematics: the infinitesimal. Up until this point in the history of mathematics, the system was concrete and all-encompassing. Any question that you could think of would have a concrete answer. However, with the concept of infinitesimals, this changed. Infinitesimals, and ultimately calculus, proved worrisome to the Catholic Church because they believed that God could not have created an abstract system. So, because it was flawed, it was wrong.
Because of this ideological clash between pure, holy, and concrete math, and unholy, chaotic, and abstract math of calculus--and, in fact, Newtons other theories like gravity too, the Church began a crusade on science. They banned the study and teaching of calculus in school, and threatened to imprison Newton. However, not all religious entities acted like the Cathloic Church.
Religions, especially the Abrahamic faiths, hold God as the ultimate ethos. Even if God determines the laws of the universe, that doesn't stop people from using science to discover them. It is important to note, supported by this idea, religion is not, by nature, anti-science. And, likewise, science is not anti-religion. The two can coexist.
While the European Dark Ages were unproductive for Europe, that same time period, between the years 500 to 1000 of the common era, the Islamic Empire was at its Golden Age. While math had yet to reach the level of complexity of calculus, an important new discovery, and abstraction, was made during this Golden Age: the discovery of the number zero. The work to understand importance of the number zero could not have been done without the network of knowledge and literacy provided by the religious foundation of Islam.
Ethos, Logos, Pathos
	One key element of the war on science is that oftentimes, the debate doesnt focus on the facts, or logos--from aristotelian argument structure, but rather about the influence and credibility of who is saying it, ethos. In religion, specifically with the Abrahamic faiths mentioned earlier, God is the ultimate ethos. Since, according to the Bible, God said that man was formed out of dust2, God formed man of the dust of the ground... (Genesis 2:7). Man didnt evolve from monkeys because it says otherwise in the Bible. In the war on science, the war is not about facts, it is on facts; ethos trumps logos.
The third aristotelian tool is pathos, or emotion. Pathos is used by modern internet tribes, which, like other tribes, groups members by a shared feeling; in certain cases, the feeling is that your government is lying to you. Internet tribals feel that they are being deceived and they know the real truth. These internet tribes have their homelands within platforms such as Facebook3a, Twitter3b, and Instagram3c, to name some--in fact, some tribes make their own platforms, i.e. Former President Donald Trumps new Truth3d network. Internet tribes need a common story in order to unite them.3eThese stories are quintessential examples of a challenge to ethos: conspiracy theories.
Conspiracy Theories
	Conspiracy theories are attractive for several reasons. First of all, they help humans make sense of events that they dont fully understand. Biologically, humans are tuned to seek patterns, to understand. If a pattern isnt clear, then we will invent one of our own. We find comfort in understanding, and thats where pathos is most powerful. We want to tell ourselves a story that confirms our beliefs. One theory example, from 9/114a, concerns what sounds better, that terrorists with no funding, who had little supplies, and lived in a cave, perpetrated one of the biggest terrorist attacks in the world, or 9/11 was a setup by the government. Conspiracy theorists have power over science because they dont have to rely on verifiable evidence, they forge their own facts.
Conspiracy theories also support the idea of war on, or at the very least aggression toward, those who disagree. Most often disagreement comes in the form of facts proven by science. Because conspiracy tribals can use whatever facts they wish, they can rely on shock factor statements for public engagement4b, in addition to attacking science-wielding disagreers. Examples of lies range in absurdity, but the takeaway is that conspiracy theorists make up their own facts to support their narratives.
Internet Tribals
The members of internet tribes are not just citizens who distrust the government, there are tribal members who are politicians too. One example is representative from Georgia, Marjorie Taylor Greene4. Representative Greene holds many beliefs from internet tribes. Without hyperbole, she suggested that wildfires in California5 were not in fact caused by Global Warming, but rather that it was more plausible that jewish space lasers started the fires. Here is an example of a more absurd conspiratorial lie. It is already questionable when Politicians have absurd beliefs, but their beliefs can also cause harm. Representative Greene also does not conform with Covid Safety protocol because of conspiracy theories about vaccinations and mask-wearing. When internet tribals in positions of authority propagate such lies, it causes more harm than when tribals talk to the open internet.
Companies
Why do such prominent figures who are supposed to lead us have irrational beliefs? Aside from shock-factor leading to interaction and clicks on the internet, the answer is money. An easy way to see this is in how large companies disregard truth and science in favor of a narrative that helps them make money. The two examples of who really started the war on science in America are big oil, and big tobacco.
ExxonMobil
In terms of big oil, the prominent story comes from ExxonMobil. Around the formation of the Environmental Protection Agency in 1970, ExxonMobil was concerned with their effect on the environment, so they did good research. And, as it turns out, the research showed that drilling for oil and burning fossil fuels was harmful to the environment. But, that, quite literally, wouldnt sell--it wouldnt make money. So, ExxonMobil changed their narrative. Exxon constructed studies from fake scientists that claimed that their actions were safe and didnt contribute to climate change. 11aExxonMobil granted $10,000 to the science and Environmental Policy Project founded by climate denial advocate, physicist, and environmental scientist Fred Singer. Before that, ExxonMobil also funded the work of solar physicist Wei-Hock Soon, who said that most global warming is caused by solar variation
Fake Scientists
Profit came before care. Fake scientists have been a very large part of the war on science. When trust in scientists is breached, people start to lose their faith. Once the trust in scientific practice was broken people started to question other narratives aside from just ExxonMobils claims--even truthful ones that used real scientists. Having fake scientists in the mix gives more room for conspiracy theorists to sow doubt. So, if we can't trust scientists, then who can we trust?
Big Tobacco
Another group of companies that disregarded the health of the world in order to make money was Big Tobacco. In addition to the aforementioned tactics of fake studies by fake scientists, Big Tobacco convinced not only its customers, but also its executives that certain false claims were true: that nicotine was, in fact, not addictive. However, this statement is profoundly untrue, and some people knew it at the time.6
Even if the CEOs of the tobacco companies truly believed that nicotine wasnt addictive, that wasnt the case with ExxonMobil. Quite recently, news has revealed the fact that ExxonMobil officials knew about their negative impact. But, again, they didnt seem to care. The story was, according to their CEO Darren Woods, Exxon Mobil has long recognized that climate change is real and poses serious risks, but there are no easy answers. Oil and gas will continue to be necessary for the foreseeable future. We currently do not have adequate alternative energy sources. This is one way of saying that Exxon didnt seem to mind that they were causing problems. Lenny Bernstein, a 30-year industry veteran and Exxons former in-house climate expert, wrote, Exxon first got interested in climate change in 1981 because it was seeking to develop the Natuna gas field off Indonesia. This is an immense reserve of natural gas, but it is 70% CO2, or carbon dioxide, the main driver of climate change. Once again, the lie was more profitable than the truth.
Corruption
To sum it all up, corruption is what happens when entities, be those politicians or companies, put money and or power above the welfare of people. Politicians knew that climate change was real but invested financially, and for the endurance of their own political employment, in a difference of belief. Politicians are meant to do whats best for the community, but when they have a desire for power over their desire for communal benefit, that is corruption.
The Hint of The Turn
Flashback to the war in Vietnam in the 60s. Around that time, lots of science in America was devoted to military technologies. This trend continued until the 1970s: science funding was massive, science was for war. In fact, the 1960 Time magazine person of the year was just all Scientists. However, in 1976, the American people experienced the first step in the turn in the credibility of science.
The Swine Flu was noticed first on the military base Fort Dix in New Jersey. It caused one death, and hospitalized 13 other people. Swine Flu never left the base. However, at the time, the United States government didnt know that. They had two options, force vaccination, or hope for the best. They prepared for the worst. David Sencer, head of the CDC at the time, said that it was, unacceptable to plan for less than 100% coverage [of vaccination]. The government was scared of the swine flu, and so, in turn, the people were too. The government launched an aggressively-advertised national vaccine campaign. The American public has always been suspicious of national vaccine campaigns, but this campaign didnt help that cause. As is reasonable, the government assured everyone that the vaccines were safe. However, out of the millions that took the Swine Flu vaccine, sixteen people got serious side-effects. It appeared as if the government was lying about the risks, which spurred fear and skepticism about the science surrounding the vaccines.
Media Narrative
After the American public noticed that something was going on, the narrative seeped into the media. In 2005, Thank You For Smoking was released7. The movie proposes an idea about questioning credibility. This is a similar narrative to questioning fake scientists. Except, in this case, we know that cigarettes are addictive and harmful, and so the character in the movie is spinning the argument of checking the validity of facts and putting that frame of questioning back on the valid facts. In other words, this movie is part of many that raise the question as to whether or not we, as the American people, can trust science.
However, not all media seems to be anti-science. As a counter example, the sitcom television series, The Big Bang Theory, which first aired in 2007, is all about scientists. Its a show with twelve seasons, and if the American sitcom watcher didnt like science, the show wouldnt have lasted for twelve years.
In the early 1960s, Michael Crichton was studying medicine, but he dropped out after being more inspired by writing. One of his first successes was Andromeda Strain. The book was released in 1968, and it was so successful that it inspired a film of the same name three years later in 1971. Andromeda Strain is a story about secret science and government weapons and control. A secret government probe was sent to out collect an alien virus in order to use it as a bioweapon. The probe crashed in a small rural town and killed everyone there. Scientists then have to struggle in order to save the world. Michael Crichton, perhaps motivated by his own separation with science, also wrote Jurassic Park. In Jurassic Park, which is more famous as the movie of the same name, scientists go too far and bring dinosaurs back to life. The dinosaurs destroy everything. The narratives of Andromeda Strain and Jurassic Park both push a question into the readers mind, can you really trust the scientists?
The Turn
Around the time that we see the media start to pick up on the idea that scientists are no longer the heros nor the silent saviors--for example, Vietnam, the public put two and two together and realized that the scientists and fake scientists were actually all tangled up in the mix of the aforementioned companies cover ups--for example, ExxonMobils global warming crisis. So, the public realized that Big Tobacco companies and ExxonMobil were lying: nicotine is addictive, cigarettes cause cancer, burning fossil fuels causes global warming. When people found out about these issues, they were rightfully mad that no one was doing anything about them. So, to assuage people and keep the money flowing, companies had to obscure the narrative: they started the war on science, the war on the truth. In turn, this only loosened the bolts in the structure of truth that holds up science and scientists.
Nowadays, like the Swine Flu scare before it, the coronavirus pandemic has sparked rejection of vaccination. Yet, this time, unlike Swine Flu, the mistrust in science has had deadly consequences.
Modern Day
	Today, the war on science continues. One of the primary examples of an internet tribe with a harmful anti-science conspiracy theory is the anti-vaccine group.9 They have questioned many aspects of vaccines, such as ingredients8a and side effects8b. Any publicized and reproducible findings are denied as lies. and they weave their own story that ranges from vaccines causing infertility, death, and and injury8c Additionally, religion and the Gods ethos show up in their arguments too.8d
Conclusion
Looking back on how the war on science has evolved over time, at least one thing has remained constant: not trusting the science and the facts. Given the threat of the coronavirus pandemic that has affected the United States for nearly two years, the ever worsening effects of climate change on the environment trust in science and the truth becomes even more important. The war on science is almost the same as the war on information. It is only when we put our trust in the science thats trying to protect us we can save our planet and our species.
Video Elements
1.1600s scientists
a.I. Newton portrait
b.G. W. Leibniz portrait
2.The Creation of Adam painting
3.Social Media Platform Logos
a.Facebook logo
b.Twitter logo
c.Instagram logo
d.Truth network logo
e.Conspiracy theory picture
4.Conspiracy Theories
a.9/11 cover up
b.What's in the vaccine
5.Representative M. T. Greene portrait
6.California Wildfires
7.Big Tobacco CEOs on Nicotine Addiction
8.Thank You For Smoking classroom movie clip
9.Vaccine information
a.Ingredients label
b.Side effects information
c.Protest signs image
d.Anti-Vaccination protest interview
10.Vaccination Protest Headlines
11.Climate Change News Headlines
a.Exxonmobil coverup
12.Climate Change Graphs
?PDR5 Deletion Lab Report
Abstract
When creating new medicines, we first must understand how the organisms causing ailments resist our medicines. Our experiment examined yeasts ability to grow without their PDR5 gene while being exposed to the antifungal clotrimazole, known as Fungicure. We hypothesized that the PDR5 gene gives yeast the ability to grow while exposed to Fungicure. A knockout cassette of the PDR5 gene with a KanMX marker, which is resistant to the G418 antibiotic, was added to yeast and plated onto a plate with YEPD+G418, in which only the experimental yeast that knocked out their PDR5 gene with KanMX was able to grow. After incubation, PCR was performed and visualized with two sets of primers, both including a primer in the KanMX gene, on the experimental and control yeast to determine if a knockout occurred. Finally, a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of Fungicure with a constant level of G418 was conducted on experimental and control yeast, which was already resistant to G418, to determine if the knockout of the PDR5 gene changes yeast susceptibility to Fungicure. The MIC of Fungicure in the yeast whose PDR5 gene was knocked out was significantly lower than in the control yeast. The experimental yeast did not grow at any level of Fungicure while the control yeast grew until the tube with the highest concentration of Fungicure. The results support our hypothesis that the PDR5 gene gives yeast the ability to grow in Fungicure. Yeast that had their PDR5 gene knocked out were unable to grow in levels of Fungicure that the control yeast could tolerate. One possibility for this change in resistance could be that the PDR5 gene codes for an enzyme that pumps drugs out of yeast. Our results suggest that, without PDR5, yeast may not be able to pump out drugs such as Fungicure, leading to decreased levels of yeast growth in Fungicure. Learning how yeast genes such as PDR5 protect yeast from drugs like Fungicure may help us create better medications to cure yeast-related ailments.  
Figures
Figure 1a: Purified PCR product from different reactions of forward (FP) and reverse (RP) primers and yeast were loaded into a gel to visualize whether PCR occurred. Two combinations of forward and reverse primers were used to ensure the validity of the results. The reaction with the transformant and the 5 junction primers was measured at 578 bp. The reaction with the transformant and the 3 junction primers was measured at 886 bp. There was no product for either of the control reactions. 
Figure 1b: Model of PCR results in figure 1a at PDR5 location in the yeast genome. No product for the control reactions because no KanMX was present for primers to bond to. Product for transformants with present KanMX expected at 578 bp for 5 junction primers and 886 bp for 3 junction primers. The products seen for the transformants in figure 1a show that PDR5 was knocked out because KanMX was present. 
Figure 2: Results of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) of Fungicure between control yeast and yeast treated with knockout cassette. Each tube contained a medium for yeast growth (YEPD) and G418 antibiotic, which the control was already resistant to, and the experimental yeast was made resistant to with the knockout cassette containing the KanMX marker. Control yeast growth was present in all levels of Fungicure except the highest level. PDR5del yeast growth was only present in the tube with no Fungicure. ?
Yeast Mutation Lab Report
Abstract
Organisms that gain resistance to medicines pose a threat to human health. Our research evaluated the mutations in yeast that give it the greatest resistance to clotrimazole, also called Fungicure. We hypothesized that the yeast with the greatest resistance to Fungicure would be made more resistant through mutations in the pleiotropic drug response (PDR), specifically the PDR1, PDR3, and/or the PDR5 genes. Through several rounds of experimentation, the yeast that was most resistant to Fungicure was determined. Using PCR and Electrophoresis, the PDR1, PDR3, and PDR5 genes in the selected yeast were amplified and measured. The PDR1, PDR3, and PDR5 genes were sequenced and compared to sequences of the non-mutated yeast. Through comparison of the PDR1, PDR3, and PDR5 genesis of wild-type yeast and the mutate yeast, it was found that there was a single missense mutation in both the PDR3 and PDR5 genes. For PDR3, a Thr was substituted for an Ala at the 949th amino acid. For PDR5, an Arg was substituted for a Gln at the 517th amino acid. The mutations in the PDR3 and PDR5 genes of the yeast that was most resistant to clotrimazole support the hypotheses that these two genes cause yeast to have a greater resistance to Fungicure. PDR5 codes for an enzyme that pumps drugs out of the yeast while PDR3 codes for an enzyme that helps control PDR5. Because there was no mutation found in PDR1, it is unable to be determined whether PDR1 causes greater resistance to Fungicure. One cause of this increased resistance may be from the fact that the two mutations in these genes appear to have increased the yeasts resistance to Fungicure may suggesting that the mutations increased the effectiveness of the two enzymes that the two genes code for. 
Figures
Figure 1: Purified PCR samples from different genes were loaded into the gel to determine how many base pairs each gene had. PDR1 was measured at 834 pairs of nucleotides, PDR4 was measured at 379 nucleotides long and PDR5 was measured at 654 nuceotides long. 
Figure 2: Comparison of PDR gene sequences before and after mutation. Wild type sequences of PDR genes 3 and 5 are shown above the sequences of mutated genes. For PDR3, a Thr was substituted for an Ala at the 949th amino acid as a result of the A nucleotide being replaced with a G nucleotide. For PDR5, an Arg was substituted for a Gln at the 517th amino acid as a result of the G nucleotide being replaced with an A nucleotide. 
Figure 3: Process of Gel Electrophoresis. In Gel Electrophoresis, DNA fragments are loaded into a gel. Then the charged plate under the gel is turned on which creates a positively charged side and a negatively charged side. Because DNA is negatively charged, all fragments will travel from the negatively charged side to the positively charged side. Fragments that are shorter have less inertia, meaning that they will travel farther. This process allows the DNA fragments to be measured by length. 
?Language is probably one of the most important tools a person can have when it comes to being able to communicate with others. There is a reason humanity evolved to have language in the first place. Language itself gives people the ability to communicate with one another and share ideas, thoughts, and feelings, but language is also more than just communication. Language gives you an identity, a culture that is unique to whatever tribe they belong to. This same concept is brought about in Born a Crime by Trevor Noah, where he mentions that Language brings with it an identity and a culture, or at least the perception of it (Noah 49). In the book, Trevor Noah uses this aspect of language to his advantage, becoming a sort of chameleon as he calls it. From what is depicted in Born a Crime, Trevor Noahs assertion that language, even more than color, defines who you are to people is accurate because language is one of the only things that can reverse/change initial opinions about someone.
During the beginning of the book, Trevor mentions that his mother taught him several languages, such as English, Zulu, Xhosa, and Afrikaans. In growing up during apartheid, Trevor saw how his mother used language to cross racial barriers, and began learning about the power of language at a young age. For example, Trevor mentions how one time when he and his mother were in a shop, the shopkeeper spoke to the security guard in Afrikaans to Follow those blacks in case they steal something (Noah 55). Instead of ignoring the shop owner, Trevors mother spun around and replied Why dont you follow these blacks so you can help them find what theyre looking for? (Noah 55). To Trevors surprise, the shopkeeper then apologized for aiming his racism at [them] (Noah 55). Trevor then learned to use language the way his mother did, using language to cross racial barriers. He even later uses his skill to get out of being mugged because of his skin color! As Trevor began to learn, by speaking the same language as someone else, you immediately create a bond with them, showing them that you arent a stranger. By speaking someone else's language, you are showing them that you are part of their tribe, which can even reverse the initial impression that they may have had one you, such as with Trevor and his mom in the shop.
Even though all languages are a form of communication, some forms of language are perceived as more valuable than others. Towards the beginning of the book, Trevor Noah mentions that his mother made him learn English as his first language rather than learning their home language. Trevor later explains that  If you're black in South Africa, speaking English is the one thing that can give you a leg up. English is the language of money. English comprehension is equated with intelligence (Noah 54). In other words, in South Africa, English is valued higher than other languages just because it is the language of the privileged. So even though Trevor Noah makes that claim that knowing many languages can help bridge the race gap, there are some languages that are valued more than others (Noah 54). Yet, the unfortunate thing is that not everyone speaks higher valued languages like English, leading to unequal access to opportunities.
In his book Born a Crime, Trevor Noah asserts that language, even more than color, defines who you are to people, and he has proven this to be true through his own personal experiences (p. 56). However, he also has shown that there are some languages that are valued more than others, and the languages of opportunity tend to be the languages spoken by those who are privileged. Language is a way to show the world who you are, or at least a way to give it a perception of who you are. When Trevor Noah uses his linguistic skills to become a chameleon, he gains the ability to have multiple identities and cultures, and even gains the ability to cross the racial barrier. So even though language may just be a way for human beings to communicate to one another, there is ironically an unspoken element about language as Trevor Noah has proven to be real. ?Rubric:
-Intro
-Coherent Argument
-Textual Understanding
-Specific Support
-Organization
Prompt:
Trevor Noah asserts that language, even more than color, defines who you are to people (56). Do you agree with Trevors assessment of the importance of language? What do his claims suggest about the power of language and the values placed on certain languages over others?
Trevor Noah recalls that he remembers most scenes of his life in English, regardless of what language they were originally spoken in. Noah says that the ability to speak a language is an identity that transcends racial boundaries. Speaking different languages allowed Trevor Noah to navigate his way through a world that, according to Noah, viewed him as an outsider (140). Noah was able to speak the other groups language in order to fit in with their identity. So, the proper language used with the corresponding people can overcome pre-instantiated racial prejudice. More generally, in some situations, certain languages have more power than others.
Trevor Noahs family was quite religious. Every Sunday, his mother tried to go to three different churches. Consequently, Trevor was exposed to lots of praying. Noahs grandmother was also quite religious, she believed in demons and curses too. Trevors grandmother had told Trevor that his prayers, when performed in English, had more bearing and influence on Jesus because, according to Trevors grandmother, he spoke English (40). Trevor believed his grandmother, I believed in the power of prayer. I know that my prayers worked (46-47). This was Trevors first experience with attuning his communication to match with the person with whom he was communicating: English to Jesus. Trevor didnt arrive upon this idea on his own, his mother also knew how to code-switch with language to better deal with situations.
On time, Trevor and his mother were in a store and the clerk told his security guards, in Afrikaans, to watch out for Trevor and his mother, to make sure they dont steal anything. Trevors mother retorted in Afrikaans that she wanted assistance instead. Then the store clerk apologized. However Trevor Noah notes that the clerk, 
didnt apologize for being racist; he merely apologized for aiming his racism at us. [...] He said, I thought you were like the other blacks. You know how they love to steal (55). Because of her ability to speak Afrikaans, the language of [the] oppressor, Trevors mother was able to alter the store clerks opinion of her from being an other black person, who love[s] to steal, to a different kind of black person, one to whom the store clerk didnt have to be racist toward (55). Trevors mother overcame the racial animosity of the store clerk by merely speaking his same language. Trevor concludes, comparing racism to code programmed into the human body, that racism says that people arent like you if they dont look like you, but that they are like you if they talk like you (50). So, in the mind of a racist person, interacting with a person who speaks their language but doesnt look like them will cause serious pause and confusion. The tool of language is useful for convincing people youre like them regardless of whether it is used to upshift or downshift your social status.
Trevor claims that he learned to use language just like his mother did. For example, he was walking down the street and he heard people plotting in Zulu to mug him. They thought that he was a rich white guy. Trevor turned around and said, in Zulu, Yo, guys, why dont we just mug someone together? (55). Trevor avoided an altercation by showing the Zulu guys, as Trevor refers to them, that, even though he looked white, he was really like them because he spoke ZuluAs Trevor mentions later in the chapter, The Cheese Boys, he was, hood, and not, cheese. In other words, he could empathize with the Zulu guys on levels aside from a language. In order to learn the language, Trevor didnt sit in a classroom, he shared the same experiences of the native speakers from each of their respective worlds. Before he went to H. A. Jack Primary school, he lived in separate worlds, each with their own racial and language identity.
Trevor Noah wrote about his first experience being on the playground at the multi-race H. A. Jack Primary school. Trevor said, I was eleven years old, and it was like I was seeing my country for the first time [...] In an instant I could see, I could feel, how the boundaries were drawn. Groups moved in color (57). Trevor saw firsthand the dividing force of segregation. However, once again with the power of language, he was able to navigate in between the playground groups just by speaking their same language. As Trevor remarked, to others it seemed like a colored kid speaking black languages was the most amazing trick (58). Because of his repertoire of language, Trevor was able to fit in with every different group, one group at a time.
	In summary, Trevor Noah demonstrates that speaking the right language gives the ability to switch between groups, whether they be oppressive or not, as well as speak directly to anyone as an equal. And, most importantly these advantages of language are present regardless of any other dividing racial identity. As Trevor Noah concludes, maybe I didnt look like you, but if I spoke like you, I was you (56).?INTRODUCCIN:
Se llama as por la influencia de los Moros, una civilizacin de frica del Noroeste quienes vivieron en esta regin por 500 aos, Andaluca es una comunidad de Espaa tan diversa. Mucho de la cultura rica llega de los races moros, pero, al mismo tiempo, hay tensin alrededor de la colonizacin e identidad. Como dijo un artculo de Georgetown University, Andaluca es "Una regin orgullosa llena de hipocresa." Esta yuxtaposicin entre las dos partes de la identidad Andaluz es fascinante.
Andaluca est situada en el Sur del pas, cerca de Morocco y el Mediterranio. Esta ubicacin, adems de la tierra rica y diversa, es una regin tan atractiva para la conquista (en el pasado) y el turismo (hoy).
?Alexander Pichler
Professor Mari OMeara
E300 Narrative Nonfiction
15 November 2021
My Humble Opinion on Journalism Being Regulated in the U.S.
The Dalai Lama once said Know the rules well, so you can break them effectively. Rules themselves are seen as a form of regulation from the general public. In fact, the definition of a rule from Oxford Languages is ??one of a set of explicit or understood regulations []. In every society, there are those who follow the rules, and then there are those who break the rules, but what some people often choose to neglect is why rules and regulations exist in the first place. In the realm of journalism, for example, there exists a set of core values, in other words a set of regulations. However, similar to society, there are those who follow these regulations, and there are those who do not. But how could one prevent journalists from straying from these core values? But before we can even begin to answer this question, we must first answer whether journalism should be regulated in the U.S. or not.
Journalism can be viewed as the act of spreading news and information to the public, which is a very important task. However, if the information that journalists spread is inaccurate, this can lead to a number of problems. Because of this flaw, there exists a set of core values for journalists to follow to prevent misinformation. Some core values include: Accuracy, Independence, Impartiality, and Humanity. Unfortunately, not every journalist follows these guidelines, which in turn leads to biased news and flat out lies being published. With this kept in mind, it seems perfectly reasonable that journalism be regulated in the U.S.. The regulation of journalism wouldnt hurt anyone except those creating fake news... right?
Unfortunately, the world is not that simple. Let me start off by saying that there have already been attempts by the federal government to regulate the press, and it has never ended well. One example of this is when the Pentagon Papers were published, and the Federal Government attempted to prevent the New York Times from continuing to publish the papers (because they were classified). The court case went all the way up to the Supreme Court, and the final ruling was that freedom of the press was protected by the first amendment. After this court case, it became clear that the federal government couldnt regulate the press, for that would violate the first amendment. 
However, even though the federal government cannot regulate the press, the general public can. With the advancement of technology, people have been able to fact check information easier. This ability to fact check from the public makes it extremely crucial for well-respected news sources to ensure their information is accurate, because even if one mistake is caught, it can severely impact their credibility. This desire for credibility and trust is mainly what keeps the media in check, and essentially what regulates journalism to a certain degree. However, even with this in mind, there are still exceptions to this (e.g. Fox News). But should journalism be regulated more than it already is?
All in all, regulating Journalism is more complex than one might think at first glance. There are ethical issues when it comes to restricting freedom of the press, but also ethical issues around publishing inaccurate information. There are two sides to every story. With this in mind, I think that the press should be regulated, but to a certain degree. There should always be exceptions, and when it comes to regulating something that is supposed to be free, there are always challenges involved. However, I believe that with the right guidance, regulation of the press (to a certain extent) could benefit the general public and reestablish trust in the media (something the U.S. currently struggles with). If something isnt done soon to reestablish trust in the media, the publics faith in the government, particularly in the election system, will continue to decline. This is because after all, trust and faith are essential elements of a functional society, and without them, all chaos breaks loose.
Bibliography: 
"Dalai Lama." AZQuotes.com. Wind and Fly LTD, 2021. 16 November 2021. https://www.azquotes.com/quote/348293
 ?Msica
Proyecto Final
	Hoy, la msica de Flamenco est conectada con una cultura vibrante, rica con pasin y ritmo. Cuando piensas sobre Espaa, la msica de Flamenco es la partitura de su viaje imaginarioPersonas bailando, cantando, y tocando una forma de arte tan contagiosa. La verdad, como es el caso frecuentemente, es que la historia y contexto de Flamenco en la identidad Espaola es ms compleja que esta versin idealizada.
	Aunque el Flamenco, naci en el Sur de Espaa en Andaluca, es un smbolo cultural de Espaa, al principio, esta forma de expresin era despreciada. Muchas Espaolas pensaron que el Flamenco era una mancha cultural que no representa los valores y logros de una Espaa moderna. La creacin y presentacin del Flamenco es a menudo asociada con los Gitanos Roman. Para las Espaolas lites, el Flamenco sintetiz el remordimiento sobre la prdida de poder y estado en el mundo moderno. Ellos piensan que este tipo de entretenimiento era una distraccin que permiti a la sociedad ignorar las problemas ms urgentes del pas como corrupcin, desigualdad educacional y riqueza, y una falta de infraestructura esencial a un pas moderno.
	La historia del Flamenco es fascinante, pero algo ms fascinante es la forma de arte especficamente. El Flamenco tiene races y ritmos tan complejos. La forma de arte tiene tres componentes especficos que definen el gnero: el toque, cante, y baile. El toque es el acompaamiento del cante con las guitarras. El estilo de tocando la guitarra es por rasgueando y haciendo trmolo a las cuerdas para aadir intensidad al mensaje musical. El cante es la parte ms importante porque lo expresa el cuento. Finalmente, hay baile. Esta es la parte que algunas personas de Espaa piensan que es muy obscena, pero al mismo tiempo, es la parte que es la representacin visual de la msica. Este tipo de baile especficamente requiere muchos aos de estudiar porque es muy complejo.
	En conclusin, el Flamenco no voy a morir. Resiliencia es una parte ncleo a la ADN de la cultura de Andaluca, y el Flamenco es un reflejo de esta espritu social. En el pasado, regimenes diferentes han probado a apagar el mensaje del Flamenco. Pero lo tiene races en culturas oprimidas, y por esta razn, lo puede cambiar a se quede relevante ahora, y en el futuro. Opresin no voy a terminar, entonces el Flamenco no voy a parar. El Flamenco es sobre mucho ms del msicaes sobre tener una voz.
?Poltica
Proyecto Final
Gobierno
Puedes aprender mucho sobre un lugar por estudiando la poltica y gobierno de esta regin. El sistema de gobierno de Andaluca hoy, el gobierno autnomo, se construy en los 1980s. Andaluca es parte de una coleccin de 17 comunidades autnomas en Espaa. Las partes del Gobierno Regional son el Parlamento de Andaluca, el presidente, un consejo, y otros grupos que forman el sistema. En esta jerarqua, el presidente tiene mucho poder e influencia como el representante de la comunidad en muchas formas.
Hipocresa
Donde hay cosas fascinantes es en la historia del sistema y en las influencias culturales que forman el gobierno y el sentimiento pblico hoy. Un buen ejemplo de esto es la religin. En Andaluca, Judasmo, Cristianismo, y Islam hay muy prevalente. Esta mezcla de ideologas es tan rica y es una caracterstica que define la regin. La presencia de la cultura rabe y de personas de frica del Norte en esta parte de la pennsula de Espaa tiene impactos grandesla comida, la msica, el arcoiris de diversidad. Pero, al mismo tiempo, Andaluca es un gran centro de catolicismo tambin. La gran contradiccin de Andaluca es en su relacin con la parte de su herencia rabe y africana. El arte, la cultura, y las ideas y perspectivas nuevas que son la fundacin de Andaluca, la parte que es el orgullo nacional de la regin, llega de las partes de su identidad (rabe y africana). Pero, este es la seccin que los ciudadanos de Andaluca no puedes mantener es su propios valores culturales hoy.
Poltica Hoy
Con toda esta informacin, podemos entender el clima poltica de Andaluca mejor. Andaluca est en una posicin fascinante entre tradicionalismo y diversidad. Hay ideas estrictas sobre roles de gnero y sus posicin nacional. Naturalmente los demogrficos variados resultan en cambio ineludibles. Recientemente, un grupo muy conservativo obtuvo poder e influencia en Andaluca. Esto es incomprensible porque Andaluca tiene una reputacin de socialism. Esto representa un cambio muy grande en la tela social de Andaluca.
?Andaluca
Poltica, Msica, y Architectura
INVESTIGACIN:
Introduccin:
-Geografa: 
-Zono autnomo en el Este de Espaa
-Cerca a Africa del Norte y el Medeterranio
-Montaas y desiertos
-Historia: 
-El nobre, Andaluca, llega de la palabra Al-Andalus
-Ocupada de los Moros Africa del Noroeste
-Su ubicacin geogrfica lo hace una regin tan atractivo y diverso
-Cultura: 
-Una cultura rica conectada con la identidad Espaa
-Diversidad, Colonizacin, Identidad
Poltica:
-Tema: Tradicionalismo: Los Roles y Reglas 
Msica:
-Tema: Flamenco
Arquitectura:
-Tema: Influencia rabe
Conexines:
-Arte como expresin
-Inmigracin y influencia 
FUENTES:
Generales:
Informacin:
?https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andalusia
?https://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Andalusia
?https://berkleycenter.georgetown.edu/posts/andalucia-a-prideful-region-teeming-with-underlying-hypocrisy
Imagenes:
?https://www.stocksy.com/699244/cityscape-of-granada-from-the-mountains-andalucia-spain-at-sunset
?https://www.ricksteves.com/watch-read-listen/read/articles/andalucia-granada-cordoba-sevilla
Poltica:
-Informacin:
-https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/spain-andalusia-vox-partido-popular-coalition-ciudadanos-a8731501.html
-https://berkleycenter.georgetown.edu/posts/andalucia-a-prideful-region-teeming-with-underlying-hypocrisy
-Imagenes:
-https://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/26894/andalusia-s-regional-elections-signal-trouble-ahead-for-spain-s-established-parties
Msica:
-Informacin:
-https://www.smithsonianmag.com/travel/complicated-history-flamenco-spain-180973398/
-https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flamenco
-https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/tag/flamenco
-Imagenes:
-https://aprilpowerstravel.com/flamenco-music-andalusia/
-https://www.magicwandart.com/flamenco/dance.html
Architectura:
-Informacin:
-https://www.absoluteaxarquia.com/architecture/
-https://www.absoluteaxarquia.com/architecture/
-https://www.frommers.com/destinations/andalusia/in-depth/architecture
-Imagenes:
-https://www.viator.com/tours/Cordoba/Official-Tour-Mosque-Cathedral-of-Cordoba/d5254-34697P5
-https://www.brightwaterholidays.com/tours/garden-tours/gardens-and-architecture-of-andalucia/
-https://www.autoeurope.com/travel-blog/see-moor-of-spain/
-https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Romanesque_architecture_in_Spain
-https://www.nationalgeographic.org/media/moorish-art/
-https://depositphotos.com/20670221/stock-photo-seville-cathedral-gothic-architecture.html
-https://www.dreamstime.com/spain-seville-square-plaza-de-espa%C3%B1a-landmark-example-renaissance-revival-style-spanish-architecture-image143068860
-https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_la_Magdalena_(Torrelaguna)
-https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_Tobacco_Factory
-https://www.pinterest.com/pin/234539093067073103/
?Argyle: Dreaming about being attacked by a scissor/seam ripper
Cue sunrise
Cue day bedroom
Argyle: Wakes up scared breathing heavily Oh my god, what a scary dream! I wonder what it could mean? Is this going to happen to me?I wonder if there are any scientists that I can talk to who will answer my questions?
Cue lab to show the two scientists arguing no rat theory is correct, no auto therapy is correct?
Argyle: hey you two, do you possibly know if dreams have meaning? I had a very scary dream and im worried that something like that might actually happen to me
RAT and second scientist: We are the dream scientists, here to tell you about dreams.
Snake scientist: I think that dreams have meaning. People used to believe that dreams were coded messages from gods or the dreamers psyche. Nowadays we have different ideas. My colleagues and I have three big theories on the meanings of dreams.``
Snake scientist: Our first theory is that dreams help us sort new experiences into short term and long term memories so that our brain is better organized. Our second theory  is dream Autotherapy! Some of us believe that we dream as a way to cope with the things going on in our daily lives, whether that be anxiety you are facing in your daily life, trauma from past experience, fear, all formed by stories that our brain creates. Our final theory is that dreams help us dispose of useless information we have collected. These researchers think we dream to forget. Despite these differences, all of my colleagues and I believe that dreams are meaningful!
RAT: Thats ridiculous! You should listen to my theory instead. It is called RAT, or Random Activation Theory. Us RATs believe that dreams are completely random and have no significance. We think that the images you see in your head while you are dreaming are your brain trying to interpret the random signals generated by your brain while you are sleeping. Thinking that dreams have any meaning is absurd when you consider how random they are!
Snake scientist: How foolish of you! How could dreams be random if dreams have a story structure and are somewhat coherent? And because the body has a mechanism to prevent itself from reacting in dreams, why do we have dreams in the first place if they are not only useless but also potentially dangerous? Your theory makes no sense! 
RAT: Why you!
They attack each other
Argyle: Well that was interesting. I sure have a lot to consider when it comes to my dreams, it seems like even though dreams seem so real, it could just be our brain processing information and anxieties, wow thats alot of theories, Thank you scientists!
Snake eats rat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g1w3IT5WnYw
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eaj8W6nPKUg&ab_channel=rejanolg
Characters:
Argyle - Main character, the sock who dreams
RAT - A theory and a puppet, dreams dont have meaning 
Snake Scientist - Dreams have meaning
Theories we need to cover
-RAT
-Points against RAT
-Autotherapy
-Freud's Theory
-Decluttering the brain theory
-Early theories about dreams, messages from spirits
Study Guide: 
Q: What is the first theory the snake proposes?
A: We dream to sort experiences into memories. 
Q: What does autotherapy mean? 
A: We dream to cope with our world. 
Q: What is the third theory the snake proposes?
A: We dream to forget. 
Q: What does the snake and all their colleagues fundamentally believe about dreams? 
A: Dreams have meaning.
Q: What does RAT stand for and what does it mean?
A:  Random Activation Theory. Dreams are the brain interpreting random signals. 
Q: What are the two main counterpoints to the RAT theory? 
A: Dreams have story structure and coherence. Dreams would have been bred out of the genepool if they were both useless and potentially dangerous. ?Role Writeup
Role: Researcher
As the researcher, my role was primarily to gather and organize information for our video. At the beginning when the project was announced, I shared a google doc and created different sections for our brainstorming, notes, script, and sources. We first brainstormed our ideas for events and countries we might want to cover. Then as I wrote these down we realized we should first work on defining our terms to make sure were on the same page. Collectively we researched terms related to journalism such as free press, fake news, censorship, etc. The next class period we had, we discussed the definitions we wanted to use for our video and I wrote those down. 
As we began researching examples of the war on journalism we decided that it would be better to cover journalism in a couple countries instead of talking about isolated events in many countries. Someone brought up the idea of each of us focusing on a single country and covering its history and we all agreed. I created separate sections on the google doc for each country and we started researching independently. Then when we had work time we would talk about what we learned and I helped give suggestions on possible topics they could research and found relevant articles about them. I also put all of our sources together at the end of the document so its easier to create the bibliography once we start making the video. 
During this project, my strengths were keeping our documents organized and helping my group find articles. For example, I proposed that Alex could talk about the interference of Russia in the US elections to connect our two topics. I found articles from the American news sites as well as explaining how the Russian media portrayed this based on their news sites. One area of growth is my communication with the members. Although we each focused on separate countries, we should have discussed how to better connect our ideas to help our video flow. Since this was the first time I was working on a long video with a group, I underestimated the level of communication we needed to effectively work as a team.
?Jill Lepore makes the case that liberalism is a needed antidote to nationalism. Do you disagree? Why? What would you consider to be an alternative? 
If you agree, why? What would you consider the proper role of liberalism to be?
In Jill Lepores This America, she explains the origins of nations, offers a brief history of American nationalism [and argues] against nationalism, and for liberalism. First and foremost, these two ideologies of nationalism and liberalism need to be defined. Both nationalism and liberalism share the same origins, yet differ greatly despite it. (27,40). Before defining nationalism, we must first understand what a nation is. Lepore defines a nation as a political community, governed by laws, that at least theoretically, unites a people who share common origins, as if they were a family. (26). However, she also notes that, in practice, a nation consists of many different people from different places and origins. (26). That being said, nationalism is the unhealthy attachment to ones country, so much so that it means less a love for your own country than a hatred of other countries and their people and a hatred of people within your own country who dont belong to an ethnic, racial, or religious majority. (23). In summary, nationalism promotes attachment to a particular place, by insisting on national distinctions. (41). A key example of nationalism in America comes from George Bancroft who first wrote about the idea of manifest destiny, which Lepore defines as an Americans sense of their God-given right to cross the continent. (35). While it might not seem like manifest destiny was motivated out of hatred for the lands or people, Lepore notes that, in fact, the nationalism that Goerge Bancroft set about cultivating [...] was part of this larger nineteenth-century project of storing the worlds people into nationalities. [...] Bancrofts history aimed to promote a feeling of national attachment. (37). While nationalism promotes division and isolation, (92). Liberalism invites the opposite. Lepore defines liberalism as the belief that people are good and should be free, and that people erect governments in order to guarantee that freedom. (40). In short, liberalism is about freedom and democracy. (41). An example of applied liberalism, that of a liberal nation, comes from French history. King Louis XIV stated, Ltat, cest moi, meaning I am the state. (40). Lepore notes how these words were changed very slightly to show the idea of liberalism. The state became the people, Ltat, cest nous. [(The state is us)] (41). This statement, the state is us, demonstrates the a liberal nations idea that all individuals have an equal right to participate in government. (131). So, while nationalism is about separation, liberalism is about unison. Since nationalism seeks to divide Americans and to enforce segregation, the best solution is a recognition and inclusion of difference.
Lepore also mentions the existence of two types of nationalism, liberal and illiberal nationalism. Liberal nationalism is the confusion between liberalism and nationalism, some political scientists have even called it an oxymoron. (130). An example of what is deemed to be Liberal nationalism comes from a quote by President Roosevelt. He said, There is no room for the hyphen in our citizenship. (83). This means that one can be either an American or not. Roosevelt wanted everyone to be a part of one national identity and no other. Opposing this viewpoint, sociologist W. E. B. DuBois wrote, [The African American] simply wishes to make it possible for a man to be both [black] and an [American]. (83). DuBois was asking to be part of a national identity, but retain his individual one. This type of liberalism can also be seen in the establishment of the United Nations [The United Nations] adopted a Universal Declaration of Human Rights. [...] Historians started writing histories that could foresee this beginning as an ending. They needed to find an origin story for internationalism, and for human rights, and for the triumph of liberalism. (100-101). A nation is united by its origins and history. A world united by a global history becomes a single nation. Nationalism cannot exist in a world with only one nation. However, the United Nations is plural. So while a single nation might be dystopian, nations can still cooperate together on the basis that All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. (Universal Declaration of Human Rights). And finally, as Lepore summarizes liberalism, Americans are bound by our past, but even more powerfully, we are bound to one another. (136). In other words, this means that liberalism that unites people based on their values--like life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness--is more powerful than nationalism that divides people based upon their origins. This should be the role of liberalism: to hold values over origins.Quote Bank
When serious historians abandon the study of the nation, when scholars stop trying to write a common history for a popel, nationalism doesnt die. Instead, it eats liberalism. (20).
Nationalism had come to mean something different from patriotism, something fierce, something violent: less a love for your own country than a hatred of other countries and their people and a hatred of people within your own country who dont belong to an ethnic, racial, or religious majority. (23).
Louis Snyder, a City College of New York professor who witnessed the rise of Nazism in Germany in the 1920s, once explained why, in a book called The Meaning of Nationalism. Nationalist, he observed, have a vested interest in maintaining a vagueness of language as a cloak for their aims. Because its difficult to convince people to pursue a course of aggression, violence, and domination, requiring sacrifices made in the name of the nation, nationalist pretend their aims are instead protection and unity and that their motivation is patriotism. (23-24).
Patriotism is animated by love, nationalism by hatred. (24).
A state is a political community, governed by laws; a nation-state is a political community, governed by laws, that at least theoretically, unites a people who share common origins, as if they were a family. In practice, though, a nation-state does not ordinarily unite a people who share common descent by geography at birth; instead it gathers together all sorts of people, from many different places and lines of descent (26).
Nationalism, when it emerged, was a product of the Enlightenment, and a species of liberalism. (27). Nineteenth-century nationalism and modern liberalism were formed out of the same clay. (40).
American nationalism is distinctive, in part, because of the strange manner in which the nation was formed. (28).
Its useful to think of the United States not as a nation-state but instead as something stranger, a state-nation. (33).
The language of nationalism, when it surfaced in the United States in the 1830s, had less to do with feelings of national belonging To be a nationalist meant to advocate for the power of the federal government.
Uniting history George Bancroft promoted idea of manifest destiny, Americans sense of their God-given right to cross the continent. (35).
Bancroft wanted the nation to appear older to give it more dignity and more authority and also, simply, more history. (36). history to unite a people
The nationalism that Goerge Bancroft set about cultivating  was part of this larger nineteenth-century project of storing the worlds people into nationalities. (37).
Bancrofts history aimed to promote a feeling of national attachment. (37).
Liberalism is the belief that people are good and should be free, and that people erect governments in order to guarantee that freedom. (40).
Ltat, cest moi, Louis XIV is said to have proclaimed WIth the rise of liberal nation-states, the state became the people: it required their consent, Ltat, cest nous. (40-41).
Liberalism embraced a set of aspirations about liberty and democracy believed to be universal. (41).
Nationalism promotes attachment to a particular place, by insisting on national distinctions. (41).
Liberal nationalists saw becoming a nation and belonging to a nationality as necessary and even inevitable steps on a path of moral, social, and political progress. (43-44).
Liberal nationalism rested on an analogy between the individual and the collective. Just as liberals had faith in dividuals, so they had faith in nations. That faith rested on the idea that the equal rights of individuals can only be guaranteed by their becoming the citizens of nations: thats what hitched liberalism to nationalism. No nations, no constitutions; no constitutions, no citizens; no citizens, no rights. (44).
The American Civil War was a struggle between two nationalisms. [...] Southern nationalism [...] would be termed illiberal, or ethinic. (57).
By good nationalism, they usually mean liberal or civic nationalism, an attachment to a set of civic ideals. By bad nationalism, they usually mean illiberal or ethnic nationalism, nativism, racism, and recourse to aggression. [...] American nationalism is both. (58).
Illiberal nationalism is often thought of as what happens when a nation-state demands extraordinary sacrifices from its people--especially by participation in wars of aggression. (71).
To restrict immigraiton, a practice associated with the rise of illiberal nationalism, is to regard foreigners who arrive from friendly nations as invading armies. (72).
The growth of illiberal nationalism was also very closely tied to the growth of populism (73).
W. E. B. DeBois wrote, [The African American] simply wishes to make it possible for a man to be both [black] and an [American]. (83). There is no room for the hyphen in our citizenship, [Theodore] Roosevelt said. (83).
Illiberal nationalism [is manifested] as isolationism. (92).
The uglier and more illiberal nationalism got, the more liberal intellectuals became convinced of the impossibility of liberal nationalism. And yet in the 1930s, even as liberals in the UNited States despaired over the future of liberal democracy , they also exerted themselves to defend liberalism by confronting nationalism. (95).
American dream 96
The United Nations was established in 1945, a new league of nations. [...] its general assembly adopted a Universal Declaration of Human Rights. [...] Historians started writing histories that could foresee this beginning as an ending. They needed to find an origin story for internationalism, and for human rights, and for the triumph of liberalism. (100-101).
Nationalism was blamed for the onset of war in 1939. (103).
The Immigration Act marked a brief midcentury reunification of liberalism and nationalism. (117). Undid previous exclusionary nationalistic actions of the origin-based quotas of the Immigration Act of 1924 replaced with country quotas
A liberal dream of a better America was derailed by Lyndon B Johnsons commitment to waging a war in Vietnam, which divided the country and set in motion the political polarization that diminished liberalism by spurring the rise of both a New Left and a New Right. (118).
The death of nationalism had been the dream of internationalists at least since the introduction of the League of Nations in 1918. (119-120). Predictions of the waning of nationalism
[In the United States,] A politics of identity replaced a politics of nationality. (127).
Nation-states are people with a common past, often a mythical one, who live under the rule of a government in the form of a state. Liberal nations are people who understand themselves as individual political equals, each with an equal right to participate in government. (131).
In American history, liberals have failed [...] to defeat illiberalism except by making appeals to national aims and ends. (131).
Political scientist Judith Shklar deemed liberal nationalism to be an oxymoron. (130).
Americans are bound by our past, but even more powerfully, we are bound to one another. (136).?The War on Terror was framed as such because the overwhelming majority of people agree that terror, as a concept, is a horrible thing that should be stopped. Because of the universality of this opinion, citizens of the United States were more inclined to agree with any effort to fight terror because they would appear as bad people if they objected to the means the government would take to end terror. This gave the government, especially the executive branch, the freedom to use any means to fight terror, no matter how horrific or destructive. In this case, framing the War on Terror as a war on an abstract concept was incredibly effective in getting the public approval to use executive power. 
The War on Journalism is framed as a war to justify discrediting and silencing the press. Although it is not explicitly framed as a War on Journalism in the same way the War on Terror and the War on Drugs are, leaders like Putin and Trump still actively work to paint journalists in a negative light as enemies of the people and spreaders of fake news. Putins case is the most direct, going so far as to jail independent journalists and label them as criminals. Although Trump is not as direct in waging the War on Journalism, he still actively works to discredit them so that his supporters do not trust their reporting. This is as effective as outlawing journalism altogether or jailing journalists who dont support them because it destroys public trust in journalists and makes obscures truth. Trumps method works in a democracy such as the United States because his method is more tolerable to the majority of people and is much harder to prevent. 
The only people who benefit from suppressing journalism are the individuals who actively suppress it. The populations of countries do not benefit from having less access to alternative viewpoints. In Putins case, he has restricted the viewpoints of his entire country. By doing this, he has successfully been in power since 2000. Trump focuses more on his supporters and audience and convinces them to ignore all journalism that is neutral or negative towards him and only focus on the news sources that paint him in a very positive light. His fan base is large enough so that he has a significant percentage of the population to manipulate. This came most sharply in focus on January 6th during the insurrection. Trump's tactics do not benefit journalism, the general public, or Democracy in the United States. They do not even serve his supporters because they do not receive any direct benefits and the fervor he ignites in them places them in physical and mental danger.  
Overall, individual leaders wage a War on Journalism against journalists to curate the opinions that their audience has about them. They do this to further control their audience, whether it is an entire country or citizens that support them. As a result, these individuals gain more power and keep that power. The War on Journalism only benefits these individual leaders and harms almost everyone else. ?For the film poster, I chose to focus on division and humanity. The image of the border shows how North and South Korea is physically divided while the overlay of the hands shows how the divide impacted the individual citizens and that there is a desire for reunification among people who had their families divided. Human hands also demonstrate the basic humanity that all the characters in the story possess while the fact that the hands are shadows shows that this humanity is repressed in North Korea. The background of the people shows how many people are impacted by the divide on both sides. I chose to highlight humanity as the title of the book can have multiple interpretations. While it directly refers to the fact that without the Great Leader there is not North Korea, it can also refer to the fact that without the South Korean people there are no North Korean people as the split broke apart families and communities and still leaves a wound in both countries. 
	I chose a bold sans font for the poster to show how bare the divide is. When the author is in North Korea, the divide seems to her very raw and open. Even though her students are covering many things up, the connection she has with them is clear and emotional. The bold font shows both how in-your-face the divide is in the book and highlights the human connection the author has with the students. 
	The colors are subdued to match the feeling of baldness the author experiences in North Korea. In her time there, everything in North Korea and Pyongyang are described as muted and gray, from the buildings to the food. The red tint over everything highlights the emotional weight of the story as well as the hidden bloodshed that runs beneath North Korea. The red highlight of the Demilitarization Zone draws in the eye and catches the attention of the viewer. Additionally, the highlight directly implies the importance of the divide.
	For the quote, I chose, "The wall between us was impossible to break down, not only that, it was permanent" (Kim, 257). This quote is useful because it directly relates to the emotional barriers which are pertinent to the story. It teases this idea of walls without explicitly stating what they are specifically, which intrigues the viewer without spoiling the story.  The quote both reflects the division as well as the desire for connection and humanity, however futile it may be. 
	The PG-13 rating works best for this film because while there is not much explicit content, the story is very weighty for younger viewers. Additionally, there are references to sexual harassment, eating of dogs, starvation, extreme poverty, concentration camps, and executions. Thus, parental guidance is strongly recommended.  
?India is now at a crucial point in deciding whether it wants to commit to the way it wants the world to view it. If it wants to become a technological center of the world, it will have to work to dismantle the caste system, at least on an economic level if not on a social level. This is the only way to expand India's technological center as currently, only a small percentage of the population that is in the higher castes has access to these jobs, and many of them are exported. By reducing the importance of the caste system, India will be able to industrialize in a more typical manner.
 In the meanwhile, India must commit to farmers to avoid economic collapse. As the farmer's protests are beginning to end after a year, some changes are beginning. For example, farmers have just gotten Prime Minister Narendra Modi to repeal three farming laws that were hurting small farmers. While this is a good first step, it is unclear whether Mr. Modi will continue to meet farmer demands and enact new laws to help them. Without proper action, farmers, and by extent, the economy will continue to suffer and induce more unrest. 
Mr. Modi, who has always projected himself as a very muscular and uncompromising figure with a "Hindu-focused nationalist agenda", is now starting to appear weaker to the public as his popularity wanes. His identity in the eyes of the Indian people and the outcome of the 2024 Indian general election will greatly affect the direction India takes to farmers and industrialization. 
?In my group, I was the editor of the script and video. Towards the beginning of this project, I did less work than my group mates because there wasnt much to edit. During this time I did some minor research to help our Researcher. As we began to finalize the script and begin recording, I started to edit more and record a majority of the script. I had some conflict with our group Lead/Storyteller over some of the edits I made, but in the end, we were able to come to a consensus. 
	I put the entire video together and did all the finalization and exportation in terms of video editing. My teammates worked on finding visuals and music to add to the recorded script and I lined everything up in iMovie to make sure it all flowed smoothly. The video editing took a majority of my time because I had to adjust a lot of the clip timing to stay within our time limit. Additionally, I had to cut out parts of the audio recordings that included long pauses or stuttering. In the end, we were able to create a video that was engaging and told a story about the War on Journalism.
	Our group worked very well together. We were all committed to finishing our project and each of us actively wanted to help out. I chose a role that matched my skill set and knowledge. We ran into some disagreements a few times but never had huge conflicts that stalled our work. The largest difficulty we encountered was that WeVideo was not working so my group mates were unable to watch the video while I was working on it in iMovie. This hurt our group communication but we got around it by showing parts of the video in study hall and I sent screen recordings to our group chat featuring drafts of the video. 
	From doing this video, I found multiple ways I could improve my work in the future. Overall, I need to be more proactive about getting things done. I dragged my feet on recording the audio and had to rush at the end. If I had been more proactive, I would have had time to re-record some clips to sound more professional. This was partly because my house is usually too loud to record until my family has gone to bed, but I should have worked harder to find a quiet place to record audio. Another thing I would have done differently is working more to flesh out the end parts of our video to have more analysis. We definitely focused more on the beginning part of the video (Vietnam) and were less thorough in the later sections. Finally, we should have become scripting at the same time we were finding visuals so that the visuals were more incorporated into the audio and did not seem separate. 
	Overall, I think our video was very successful in conveying our War and was pretty engaging. I learned a lot by making this video and will take the parts we could have improved into consideration for future group projects. ?War on Science Video Project
Process Reflection & Role Execution
Instructions
-How you believe you did in fulfilling your role with direct examples. 
-You are assessing yourself:
-What did you do well?
-What are your growth areas? 
-What would you do differently in your role?
Format
-Double Spaced
Reflection: Story Teller & Editor
How I Felt Starting the Project
To begin with, I think it was a bit difficult to find momentum to start this project. There were many different tiny snowballs of ideas that we had to filter through to find which one to roll down the hill into our video. More specifically, I think we had some good structure with the very beginning of the project, with submitting a concrete block of information on terms and origins and also the starting and ending points of our story. However, after that point, there weren't any incremental submissions to kind of keep track of our work progress, so I think we lagged behind a little in starting the actual crafting and drafting of our script. However, once I realized that Arlie, Ian, and I had less time left than I thought it would take to complete the project, we put the history project at the top of our figurative pilie homework--although to be honest, looking back, we didnt have that much homework.
Role Objectives
As an insert note, the items in the project I was responsible for was:
-drafting the script content,
-polishing the script flow and word choice--and related to this finding a tone to speak the script in,
-recording myself reading the script,
-editing together the recordings and adding text graphics and including images
Role Objectives Completion
	It is only now in the reflection process that I concretely outlined all the role objectives that I needed to accomplish. If I had done this previously, I could have turned the objectives into a task list.
	However, all the tasks that I have done line up with the objectives of the storyteller and editor roles, so things worked out well in the end. But, I think it would have been better if I had made a checklist beforehand.
	So, for next time, make a task checklist. While I didnt create such a checklist for my role, we did have a checklist-like document for the entire group project, in which I included some of the tasks that I needed to complete. So, by not separating to-do tasks into individual and personal lists, we dissolved the role lines a little bit. In addition to this, Arlie helped in drafting the script as well.
Work Process
	The process of generating our script, which, I think, was really the main sustenance of the project--due to the video being more of a secondary way of presenting the information, began with a clustered document of ideas. I wont go into too much detail about the process, because thats neither interesting to read about nor relevant to the reflection queries. Either way, I think that Arlie, Ian, and I worked well with compiling disorganized ideas into a single location. The next task that was difficult was to organize those ideas and factoids and decide on a narrative order. I think our work process was correct in that it was helpful to us, but I think we shouldve made time goals and objectives set more aggressively, so we didnt end up turning in our project late. However, by the end, Arlie and Ian couldnt really help me in the editing process, so I had to make sure I met the deadlines--at least the grace period deadlines--by myself, which I could see how that could have been stressful for them, given that they had little control over the project at that point.
What I Learned (Or Reinforced My Knowledge of) for Future Projects With Little In-Person Interaction
Work Order
	I realized that having a good plan for the order of work is important so people know what to do at what time.
Organization
I learned that having organizational measures such as different documents for different components of the project, can greatly improve workflow and efficiency. I didnt really have time to meet with my fellow group members outside of school, so any work that required lots of clarity around, this is what Im going to do/am doing, this is what Id like you to do. So, I think having a planner role, or actually if everyone had worked together on it, somehow making a plan for who needs to do what by when.
	Also, sorry to drag on this tangential reflection for too long, but my experience with organizing our work in this group project was similar to that of another experience I had working on a programming project. One of the main struggles of the programming project was that I didnt have a lot of time to sit down and talk with my partner in person, and so coming up with strategies of communication through the work, such as commenting or texting were essential in order to figure out how to best do the project.?Instructions:
We have been discussing Seattle, roads, crime, and some Indigenous history.
We will go more into all of these issues moving forward. For now, I want you to write a 500-600 word essay on what you think Seattle should do to become a better city moving forward, in regards to any of the topics that we have covered so far.
This could mean you say "more bike lanes!" or "more indigenous art" or "a bridge, just....a working bridge for West Seattle, come on now." Regardless of what you choose, you must provide evidence from the articles we have read and discussed.
You can be creative here, in fact you should be, as the one constant about Seattle is that it is constantly changing.
Requirements:
1. 500-600 words
2. At least 3 quotes from articles you have read for this class
3. Properly (MLA) cite your sources
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1L3T8xXqtrVqdCnpzvC2A2xIBtUm9B-qtWZ0SYpReRrA/edit?usp=drivesdk
Seattle has an interconnected network of transportation. The roads are adjacent to bike lanes, which are adjacent to sidewalks. These three corridors route traffic from people, cars, and bikes. The different transportation methods are densely packed into the city of Seattle, and it is important to understand how they work together, and how safety is maintained across all methods of travel.
	Cars make up the largest group of transportation. In fact, according to a Seattle Times article written in February of 2021 by Gene Balk, for every ten Seattle residents, there are about six cars (Balk). Seattle has the second highest car-to-resident ratio of cities in the United States, followed only by Long Beach in California (Balk). This number, however, is an average, obscuring the extra information about car-to-resident density that varies upon location. Seattle is a very diverse environment in many ways, and that is also true about the car-to-human density factor. Rich neighborhoods, such as Arroyo Heights in West Seattle, have car densities of over nine cars per ten people. But in more dense neighborhoods, such as the Chinatown-International district, there are only a little over two cars per ten people. This ratio is about the same as New York (Balk).
	The density of the neighborhood not only determines the number of cars that are ownedand therefore usedby its residents, but also the type of traffic flow that can be observed there. For example, in certain neighborhoods that are adjacent to major roads, having freeway-like speed limits next to residential neighborhoods can pose a threat to pedestrian safety. A Seattle Times article, written by Michelle Baruchman, describes the incongruity between high traffic fatalities and low commuter count in certain neighborhoods. The article notes several dangerous roads that have had problems with accidents and fatalities in Seattle. The most dangerous streets in Seattle, such as Lake City Way and Aurora Avenue North, have [speed limits greater than twenty-five miles-per-hour]. [...] Traffic safety is a longtime concern along Rainier Avenue South (Baruchman). One tactic that the Seattle Department of Transportation uses in order to make roads safer is to reduce the speed limit. However, an issue with these specific roads is that they are owned by Washington State, and not the city, making speed limit legislation a more difficult process.
Despite the roads that are out of Seattles hands, the city has tried to implement more traffic controls with the project Vision Zero. This policy includes the addition of crosswalk lines and crossing signage to increase pedestrian safety. However, according to author Baruchman, Seattle is not making significant progress toward reaching Vision Zero, its stated goal of eliminating traffic fatalities and serious injuries by 2030 (Baruchman). The Vision Zero policy, which was adopted in 2000, aims to ensure that pedestrians can safely join the dense environment of transport in Seattle. Allison Schwartz, Vision Zero coordinator for Seattles Department of Transportation, said, For decades, streets have been designed for the fast and free movement of vehicles rather than for the safety and comfort for human beings (Baruchman). Seattle is shifting its attention from the efficiency of carssingle-occupant job commuters in cars to focusing on helping pedestrians feel safe and able to use the transportation network. Of the 465 miles of arterial streets in Seattle, 335[, or just over seventy-two percent,] are now marked for 25 mph or slower (Baruchman). This restriction will reduce the fatality of traffic accidents.
However, one interesting note about the speed limits in Seattle, from a local-cultural perspective is that many people dont follow the limits. During assembly at DTS, when the winter formal dance was announced, the dress-code requirements were described as being as loose as the seattle twenty-five mile-per-hour speed limit, which elicited laughter from, presumably, the driving population of DTS. This shows that, in the publics eyeespecially the eye of young drivers that are fresh out of driving schoolspeeding isnt considered bad behavior, even if its against the law. So, while the city is trying to focus its attention on pedestrian safety, the local population doesnt see speeding as enough of an issue in order to obey the posted signs.
Roads are not the only transit path where safety is a concern. It is also important that sidewalks are maintained to ensure safety. Sidewalks can be damaged by flooding and tree roots. These are two main issues in addition to others. Both flooding and roots crack the sidewalk and make uneven surfaces, which need to be repaired. These uneven surfaces might not be problematic for DTS high schoolers, but more vulnerable populations such as the elderly who might use canes and walkers require smooth sidewalks in order to locomote. When it comes to repairs, if city owned entities cause sidewalk damage, the city will take responsibility for the repairs (Sidewalk Repair Program). Otherwise, it is the responsibility of property owners to ensure the safety and usability of their adjacent sidewalks. Seattle Municipal Code requires that adjacent property owners keep their sidewalks in good repair and safe for public travel. This means keeping the sidewalk clear from vegetation overgrowth, snow, and ice accumulation, as well as making repairs to the sidewalks when damaged (Sidewalk Repair Program). This responsibility cannot be shirked, and shows that homeownership in Seattle not only provides independence, but also requires responsibility.
In addition to prioritizing safety of humans, Seattle also values the safety of a precious resource on Earth, trees. When it comes to repairing sidewalks damaged by tree roots, the Seattle legislature says, Prior to pruning tree roots you must arrange for an SDOT [Seattle Department of Transportation] Arborist to evaluate how the pruning will impact the tree's health and public safety. This commitment to trees shows Seattles commitment to safety in the short term for the trees, and also in the long term, for having healthy air to breathe.
	Cars and pedestrians tend to stay in their respective lanes of transport, streets and sidewalks. However, one entity that blurs the lines between these two lanes are bikes. Bikes use both the street and the sidewalk, even if they bikes arent ridden in the latter location. The many parties that use the sidewalk curb include but are not limited to ride-share cars, bikes, scooters, and delivery trucks (Bliss and Small). One major investment that Seattle is making moving forward in the future is gathering data on parking of cars and e-bikes and e-scooters. Gathering data on where bikes are being used will help the city manage roadside parking spaces and bike lines in the most densely compounded zones. As transportation resetacher Regina Clewlow, co-founder and CEO of Populus, was quoted in a Bloomberg news article by Laura Bliss and Andrew Small, The interaction of many new alternatives impact people's travel choices. [...] Theres going to be a need for more data and information so cities can be more nimble in their policy and pricing. (Bliss and Small). Electric scooters and bikes are a fairly recent addition to Seattle's transportation network, and it will be important to ensure these electric vehicle riders, who, oftentimes, don't even wear helmets.
	Seattle is a city that has diverse methods of transportation, not all of which were mentioned in this response. These transportation tools are all used in the small confines of a busy city, and it's paramount that people are safe, despite desires to be as efficient as possible that are brought on by Seattle's constant development and influx of people. 
Works Cited
Balk, Gene. Seattle Has Finally Reached Peak Car, and Only One Other Densely Populated U.S. City Has More Cars per Capita. The Seattle Times, The Seattle Times Company, 18 Feb. 2021, www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/data/seattles-car-population-has-finally-peaked/.
Baruchman, Michelle. Why Are There so Many Seattle Traffic Fatalities When so Few People Are Commuting? The Seattle Times, The Seattle Times Company, 28 Jan. 2021, www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/transportation/seattle-traffic-fatalities-remained-high-in-2020-despite-pandemic.
Bliss, Laura, and Andrew Small. The Race to Code the Curb. Bloomberg CityLab, Bloomberg, 2 Apr. 2019, www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-04-02/the-startups-tracking-how-cities-use-curb-space.
Sidewalk Repair Program. Seattle.gov, Seattle Department of Transportation, www.seattle.gov/transportation/projects-and-programs/programs/maintenance-and-paving/sidewalk-repair-program#:~:text=Seattle%20has%20over%202%2C100%20miles,the%20Asset%20Management%20Inventory%20page.
?Instructions:
We have been discussing Seattle, roads, crime, and some Indigenous history.
We will go more into all of these issues moving forward. For now, I want you to write a 500-600 word essay on what you think Seattle should do to become a better city moving forward, in regards to any of the topics that we have covered so far.
This could mean you say "more bike lanes!" or "more indigenous art" or "a bridge, just....a working bridge for West Seattle, come on now." Regardless of what you choose, you must provide evidence from the articles we have read and discussed.
You can be creative here, in fact you should be, as the one constant about Seattle is that it is constantly changing.
Requirements:
1. 500-600 words
2. At least 3 quotes from articles you have read for this class
3. Properly (MLA) cite your sources
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1L3T8xXqtrVqdCnpzvC2A2xIBtUm9B-qtWZ0SYpReRrA/edit?usp=drivesdk
Seattle has an interconnected network of transportation. The roads are adjacent to bike lanes, which are adjacent to sidewalks. These three corridors route traffic from people, cars, and bikes. The different transportation methods are densely packed into the city of Seattle, and it is important to understand how they work together, and how safety is maintained across all methods of travel.
	Cars make up the largest group of transportation. In fact, according to a Seattle Times article written in February of 2021 by Gene Balk, for every ten Seattle residents, there are about six cars (Balk). Seattle has the second highest car-to-resident ratio of cities in the United States, followed only by Long Beach in California (Balk). This number, however, is an average, obscuring the extra information about car-to-resident density that varies upon location. Seattle is a very diverse environment in many ways, and that is also true about the car-to-human density factor. Rich neighborhoods, such as Arroyo Heights in West Seattle, have car densities of over nine cars per ten people. But in more dense neighborhoods, such as the Chinatown-International district, there are only a little over two cars per ten people. This ratio is about the same as New York (Balk).
	The density of the neighborhood not only determines the number of cars that are ownedand therefore usedby its residents, but also the type of traffic flow that can be observed there. For example, in certain neighborhoods that are adjacent to major roads, having freeway-like speed limits next to residential neighborhoods can pose a threat to pedestrian safety. A Seattle Times article, written by Michelle Baruchman, describes the incongruity between high traffic fatalities and low commuter count in certain neighborhoods. The article notes several dangerous roads that have had problems with accidents and fatalities in Seattle. The most dangerous streets in Seattle, such as Lake City Way and Aurora Avenue North, have [speed limits greater than twenty-five miles-per-hour]. [...] Traffic safety is a longtime concern along Rainier Avenue South (Baruchman). One tactic that the Seattle Department of Transportation uses in order to make roads safer is to reduce the speed limit. However, an issue with these specific roads is that they are owned by Washington State, and not the city, making speed limit legislation a more difficult process.
Despite the roads that are out of Seattles hands, the city has tried to implement more traffic controls with the project Vision Zero. This policy includes the addition of crosswalk lines and crossing signage to increase pedestrian safety. However, according to author Baruchman, Seattle is not making significant progress toward reaching Vision Zero, its stated goal of eliminating traffic fatalities and serious injuries by 2030 (Baruchman). The Vision Zero policy, which was adopted in 2000, aims to ensure that pedestrians can safely join the dense environment of transport in Seattle. Allison Schwartz, Vision Zero coordinator for Seattles Department of Transportation, said, For decades, streets have been designed for the fast and free movement of vehicles rather than for the safety and comfort for human beings (Baruchman). Seattle is shifting its attention from the efficiency of carssingle-occupant job commuters in cars to focusing on helping pedestrians feel safe and able to use the transportation network. Of the 465 miles of arterial streets in Seattle, 335[, or just over seventy-two percent,] are now marked for 25 mph or slower (Baruchman). This restriction will reduce the fatality of traffic accidents.
However, one interesting note about the speed limits in Seattle, from a local-cultural perspective is that many people dont follow the limits. During assembly at DTS, when the winter formal dance was announced, the dress-code requirements were described as being as loose as the seattle twenty-five mile-per-hour speed limit, which elicited laughter from, presumably, the driving population of DTS. This shows that, in the publics eyeespecially the eye of young drivers that are fresh out of driving schoolspeeding isnt considered bad behavior, even if its against the law. So, while the city is trying to focus its attention on pedestrian safety, the local population doesnt see speeding as enough of an issue in order to obey the posted signs.
Roads are not the only transit path where safety is a concern. It is also important that sidewalks are maintained to ensure safety. Sidewalks can be damaged by flooding and tree roots. These are two main issues in addition to others. Both flooding and roots crack the sidewalk and make uneven surfaces, which need to be repaired. These uneven surfaces might not be problematic for DTS high schoolers, but more vulnerable populations such as the elderly who might use canes and walkers require smooth sidewalks in order to locomote. When it comes to repairs, if city owned entities cause sidewalk damage, the city will take responsibility for the repairs (Sidewalk Repair Program). Otherwise, it is the responsibility of property owners to ensure the safety and usability of their adjacent sidewalks. Seattle Municipal Code requires that adjacent property owners keep their sidewalks in good repair and safe for public travel. This means keeping the sidewalk clear from vegetation overgrowth, snow, and ice accumulation, as well as making repairs to the sidewalks when damaged (Sidewalk Repair Program). This responsibility cannot be shirked, and shows that homeownership in Seattle not only provides independence, but also requires responsibility.
In addition to prioritizing safety of humans, Seattle also values the safety of a precious resource on Earth, trees. When it comes to repairing sidewalks damaged by tree roots, the Seattle legislature says, Prior to pruning tree roots you must arrange for an SDOT [Seattle Department of Transportation] Arborist to evaluate how the pruning will impact the tree's health and public safety. This commitment to trees shows Seattles commitment to safety in the short term for the trees, and also in the long term, for having healthy air to breathe.
	Cars and pedestrians tend to stay in their respective lanes of transport, streets and sidewalks. However, one entity that blurs the lines between these two lanes are bikes. Bikes use both the street and the sidewalk, even if they bikes arent ridden in the latter location. The many parties that use the sidewalk curb include but are not limited to ride-share cars, bikes, scooters, and delivery trucks (Bliss and Small). One major investment that Seattle is making moving forward in the future is gathering data on parking of cars and e-bikes and e-scooters. Gathering data on where bikes are being used will help the city manage roadside parking spaces and bike lines in the most densely compounded zones. As transportation resetacher Regina Clewlow, co-founder and CEO of Populus, was quoted in a Bloomberg news article by Laura Bliss and Andrew Small, The interaction of many new alternatives impact people's travel choices. [...] Theres going to be a need for more data and information so cities can be more nimble in their policy and pricing. (Bliss and Small). Electric scooters and bikes are a fairly recent addition to Seattle's transportation network, and it will be important to ensure these electric vehicle riders, who, oftentimes, don't even wear helmets.
	Seattle is a city that has diverse methods of transportation, not all of which were mentioned in this response. These transportation tools are all used in the small confines of a busy city, and it's paramount that people are safe, despite desires to be as efficient as possible that are brought on by Seattle's constant development and influx of people. 
Works Cited
Balk, Gene. Seattle Has Finally Reached Peak Car, and Only One Other Densely Populated U.S. City Has More Cars per Capita. The Seattle Times, The Seattle Times Company, 18 Feb. 2021, www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/data/seattles-car-population-has-finally-peaked/.
Baruchman, Michelle. Why Are There so Many Seattle Traffic Fatalities When so Few People Are Commuting? The Seattle Times, The Seattle Times Company, 28 Jan. 2021, www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/transportation/seattle-traffic-fatalities-remained-high-in-2020-despite-pandemic.
Bliss, Laura, and Andrew Small. The Race to Code the Curb. Bloomberg CityLab, Bloomberg, 2 Apr. 2019, www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-04-02/the-startups-tracking-how-cities-use-curb-space.
Sidewalk Repair Program. Seattle.gov, Seattle Department of Transportation, www.seattle.gov/transportation/projects-and-programs/programs/maintenance-and-paving/sidewalk-repair-program#:~:text=Seattle%20has%20over%202%2C100%20miles,the%20Asset%20Management%20Inventory%20page.
?Alexandre Lipson
English 300
16 November 2021
Journalism Should Be Completely Unregulated
Journalism is the practice of informing people about events in a manner that is as accurate to the facts, and as close to being unbiased as possible. However, these ethical requirements are difficult to maintain, especially since everyone with internet access can be a journalist. In the words of Aidan White, the director of Ethical Journalism Network, many more people today, [who] may not be journalists, commit acts of journalism (What is Journalism And Who Is A Journalist). In fact, in 2020 alone, there were over thirty-one million active bloggers. (How Many Blogs Are There?). Compounded by the fact that regulations on journalism ethics would be hard to implement for every blogger on the internet, journalism would benefit from zero regulation for two reasons. First, every journalist brings their own perspective to an issue; and second, the global audience can extract quality articles of journalism based upon the attention they give, and by cross-referencing the facts that articles contain.
One key reason why journalism should not be regulated is because each journalist has their own truth. As clarified by Lee Gutkind in his narrative nonfiction guidebook, You Can't Make This Stuff Up: The Complete Guide to Writing Creative Nonfiction -- from Memoir to Literary Journalism and Everything in Between, there is a difference between truth and facts, Truth is personal--it is filtered through our own lens and orientation. [...] Facts cannot be changed by perception. Description and detail can be confirmed (Gutkind 19, 20). Each journalist brings their own understanding and perspective to a story. Journalists can, even with the same facts, use different reasoning to support their own ideas on a topic. So the benefit of a massive diversity of bloggers around the world, is an equivalent diversity of ideas. Such diversity of ideas is important for understanding an issue; for example, even though The New York Times provides good articles, we cant read those articles without reading through the lens of a New York Times columnist.
Interaction with content on the internet often comes in the form of a snowball effect of attention. One person will read an article, and then share it. In fact, a term for popular content on the internet is, viral, suggesting that said content has spread from person to person like a virus. It is for this reason that the consumers of journalism, the global audience of the internet, can easily control what sources of journalism--or what articles of journalism, because sometimes journalists might write good and bad articles--based on how much they interact with the content. A good article will be shared, but a boring article will not be.
However, there is a downside to articles gaining attention by internet shares. Exaggerated, timely, and provocative content, which is often exaggerated for that very purpose of provocation, will take precedence over well-researched, thoroughly edited, and fact-reliant articles. Such articles could even be examples of conspiracy theories. But, a solution to this problem evolves from the system of the global audience. Primarily, a journalist who publishes too quickly without fact-checking, and writes too provocatively without regard for the truth, will lose credibility in the minds of the global audience. If a journalist loses their reputation, then the global audience will not interact with their content as much in the future. If you make stuff up, you very likely will get caught and there will be consequences. (Gutkind 14). And, secondarily, journalists that make up their own facts--this argument focuses on the individual journalist, as opposed to a journalists article, because if a journalist makes up facts in one article, that transgression against journalistic ethics likely translates onto other articles.--cannot prove their lies when truth is more abundant. For example, if bloggers were to include some facts and some lies, and readers are smart enough to read multiple articles, the global audience would be able to cross-check the facts, and come to a conclusion that both included all the journalist's perspectives, but also, all the facts. Despite this, its good practice, as written in The Truth Matters, as a consumer of journalism, to be skeptical whenever someone doesnt appear to be affiliated with a reputable institution or lacks reasonable experience. (Bartlett 47).
The main takeaway from the concept of unregulated journalism is that it only works if the global audience, the readers, are active comprehenders of journalistic ethics, working on their own to determine the facts, but also to empathize with the different personal truths and perspectives of journalists. So, in an ideal situation, where the global audience is responsible for their own understanding of all the journalistic articles, then journalism needs no regulations. However, people dont have enough time to do all that checking themselves; thats why journalism is a profession. From the expert, as Aidan White said, Although the door is open to far more people being engaged in journalism, it does not dilute the importance of standards and quality in the work thats being done. (What is Journalism And Who Is A Journalist).
Works Cited
Bartlett, Bruce R. The Truth Matters: A Citizen's Guide to Separating Facts from Lies and Stopping Fake News in Its Tracks. Ten Speed Press, 2017.
Ethics 101: What is Journalism And Who Is A Journalist?. YouTube, uploaded by Ethical Journalism Network, 17 February 2015, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=orI0uEj2Z7M.
Gutkind, Lee. You Can't Make This Stuff Up: The Complete Guide to Writing Creative Nonfiction -- from Memoir to Literary Journalism and Everything in Between. Da Capo Press, 2012.
How Many Blogs Are There? WebsiteSetup, 23 Apr. 2021, websitesetup.org/news/blogging-statistics/.
?Writing Prompt: Seattle - Design and Intention
Luca Millard-Kish
	Seattle is a city of contradictions. We are one of the most technologically advanced cities, a hub for Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Facebook, and more, yet we still face the challenges of any city. In an article by Jon Talton, he refers to 3rd Avenue as Seattles Endangered Lifeblood where public safety is especially failing. (Talton) This street, at the same time, is a transit corridor for all of the tech workers coming in and out of the city. 3rd Avenue, in a flourishing and developed city, is also one of the most crime-ridden stretches in Seattle. This is just one example of where Seattle has had an opportunity for meaningful change and has yet to address it.
Another example of this lack of action that is quite close to my heart is art. Seattle prides itself on its art and culture, yet programs dedicated to art and individuals striving to make the world a more beautiful place lack the funding they require. In Seattle and beyond, art is appreciated but rarely truly valued. Its seen in our world as a glorified hobby, yet in times of great suffering (the COVID 19 pandemic), its turned to in order to instill hope and inspiration. In 2019, when the viaduct by the waterfront was demolished for safety purposes, there was a plan to create a waterfront park that would also act as a summer home for the Seattle Symphony. While the park may still become a reality, the summer home for the Symphony was ruled out for budget reasons. However, as written in the Seattle Times in 2021, Washington will see nearly $8.6 billion in dedicated funds towards infrastructure projects (Roberts). This hardly seems like a budget issue. This is a systemic issue of values. Seattle is home to some of the most dynamic arts communities, yet the city doesnt see this development as essential to human life. 
My proposal for a change in Seattle is to follow through with the initial idea of a waterfront park with an outdoor performance space. As shown above, our city budget (collected from taxes), offers more than enough resources to make this dream a reality. This outdoor park and gathering space would encourage Seattlites to be active in their community, enjoy the beauty of the Pacific Northwest waterfront, and de-stress from the intense standards, requirements, and expectations of a thriving urban hub. All the while, money funneled into this tourist attraction would be recycled back into the arts. This is a positive cycle where earnings from the arts go back to fuel the arts. Studies show that the impact of the arts on mental health is enormous. Research states that The performing arts get people out from behind their screens and [put] them into a positive social setting, where they can build important social skills. Face to face interaction also promotes belonging and community. (Reset Brain + Body | Integrative Mental Health Counseling) Especially in a time of quarantine and isolation, the arts are crucial to our wellbeing. This outdoor (COVID-safe) space would allow for us to have a place to go and reset as a society.
As I said in the beginning, Seattle is a city of contradictions. We have the capacity to bring about this positive change but have chosen to allocate funds elsewhere. In the coming years, the decisions around this waterfront land will speak volumes about what we value as a society and where still have room to grow.
Works Cited
Reset Brain + Body | Integrative Mental Health Counseling. Reset Brain + Body | Integrative Mental Health Counseling, 26 Oct. 2018, www.resetbrainandbody.com/blog/how-the-performing-arts-benefit-mental-health#:~:text=The%20performing%20arts%20get%20people,improves%20mood%20and%20decreases%20depression.. Accessed 1 Mar. 2022.
Roberts, Paul. Federal Infrastructure Package Is an $8.6 Billion Game Changer for Washington State. The Seattle Times, 6 Nov. 2021, www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/infrastructure-package-is-an-8-6-billion-game-changer-for-washington-state/. Accessed 1 Mar. 2022.
Talton, Jon. Third Avenue Is Seattles Endangered Lifeblood. The Seattle Times, 4 Feb. 2022, www.seattletimes.com/business/third-avenue-is-seattles-endangered-lifeblood/. Accessed 1 Mar. 2022.
?
?
?
?
?Alexander Pichler
Professor Mari OMeara
E300 Narrative Nonfiction
24 November 2021
Local Boy Saved from the Heroic Actions of an Old Man
During the hottest summer day of 1989, an old Puerto Rican man was walking down the street with his cart of Helado de Coco shaved ice. As he slowly pushes his cart with a block of ice and many colorful ice flavors, kids from all around the block sprint into the street to buy a tasty way to cool themselves off during a hot summer day. As the Puerto Rican man starts handing out shaved ice to the young kids around, the familiar sound of the Mr. Softee truck begins to approach. As the ice-cream truck pulls over to the curb, Eddie, a local boy from the neighborhood, runs away from the shaved ice cart toward the truck with excitement yelling Ice Cream!. Meanwhile, a speeding car approaches from behind. Da Mayor, a local man who was watching the incident, sees the speeding car bearing on Eddie and rushes across the street to save him. Just in time, Da Mayor dives to push Eddie out of the path of the car, resulting in both being knocked to the ground. Eddie, who was scared to death after the incident, begins to cry as Da Mayor helps him get up. As Eddies mother approaches the scene, Eddie tells his mother that Da Mayor had knocked him down, but after Da Mayor explains what really happened, Eddie stays silent with shame as it becomes clear that he didnt tell the truth to his mother. After Eddies mother thanks Da Mayor for saving his son, she and Eddie return to their house. Thanks to Da Mayors heroic efforts, the life of a young boy was saved. Da Mayor later mentioned I wasn't trying to be a hero. I saw what was about to happen and I reacted, didn't even think. If I did, I might not have done it in second thought. Da Mayor, an old man, haven't run that fast in years. His actions were recognized throughout the town as an act of heroism. Even Mother Sister, a local older woman who did not approve of Da Mayor, later told him how brave he was.?Sarah Epelbaum
Mari OMeara
E300
18 January 2022
		
Role of the North Korean President
		Most people would agree that there is little to no connection between first world countries and North Korea. This mysterious country, stuck between South Korea and China, is home to one of the most brutal cases of dictatorship of our era. While we are complaining about internet addictions and fake news, North Koreans must live in constant fear of arrest for even the slightest of errors. From an outside perspective, one must wonder how the leaders of such a regime have maintained control over the country for so long. Various religions have existed for thousands of years and are still heavily practiced despite advancements in technology and other forms of ethics. In fact, the first president of North Korea designed his image to fit that of an omnipotent god for this exact reason. The role of Kim Jung Un as a religious figure in North Korea can be understood through North Koreas view on major religions and the use of Juche ideology as a political tool for control. 
Although its not prohibited in the constitution, North Korea will brutally punish anyone who is suspected of practicing religion without their approval. A study on North Korea from the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom shows just how terrible the conditions are. According to them, Religious freedom conditions in North Korea are among the worst in the world despite religious freedom being explicitly stated in their constitution. It nominally grants freedom of religious belief, but it draws the line if this causes drawing in foreign forces or for harming the State, which could be interpreted differently depending on the context. The punishment for this ambiguous crime includes arrest, torture, imprisonment, and execution making it one of the most dangerous places to practice religion. Although North Korean citizens are essentially prohibited from practicing religion, the country has a core belief system similar to major religions of the world. 
	The North Korean government encourages atheism as part of the communist ideology and has the Juche doctrine as their core belief system. An article from World Atlas wrote this about North Koreas belief system, The country promotes state-sponsored atheism, since it is communist and has a national doctrine of Juche that says people should break from being dependent on spiritual ideas (Sawe). In a study on the philosophy of Juche, they found that Kim Il-Sung explained Juche as being the master of revolution and reconstruction in ones own country, and essentially giving power to the collective group of individuals (Lee). In practice, this means rejecting dependence on others, using ones own brains, believing in ones own strength (Lee). But over the years, Juche has evolved into more of a spiritual belief system, rather just an economic one. A study of juche ideology states, The North Koreans were made to worship Kim with Juche as the political philosophy of a ruling government. However, it was transformed into religion because the people believed that the ruler (Kim Il Sung) is not elected; instead, he is a supreme human (Widjaja). Much like major religions, the Juche belief system has god-like leaders and clearly established rules to translate a philosophy on life into its practical application.  
Both Juche ideology and the belief system of abrahamic religions are used as a means of control. According to a study, The North Koreans were made to worship Kim with Juche as the political philosophy of a ruling government (Widaja). But, this was not always the case. The article later claims that, it was transformed into religion because the people believed that the ruler (Kim Il Sung) is not elected; instead, he is a supreme human (Widjaja). At first, Kim Il-Sung actually opposed religion because he believed it to be superstitious to have faith in a god. Eventually, he transformed Juche into basically a religious belief system with him as a supreme person, similar to jesus. 
Another similarity between Juche ideology and abrahamic religions is using the religion as a political tool. In the same study the author later explains, Therefore, the theory that religion can be used as a political tool or politically using religion is correct, as is North Korea's case. Juche did not offer salvation such as religion in general, but Juche found it a political tool of totalitarianism. The indoctrination that has taken place in North Korea through the instrument of Juche ideology and it is a barrier that undermines the introduction of other ideologies and religion (Widaja). The juche ideology is used as a barrier that shields the people from exploring other belief systems, which is similar to how most religions operate. Since there is only one religion in North Korea, the president is able to use it as a political tool of totalitarianism. 
The establishment of major religions set a precedent for North Korean dictators, specifically in the relationship between god and his followers. The mystery behind North Koreas strict regime can be understood under this familiar framework, there by connecting our experiences to North Koreans, at least partially. Its important to remember that the people living in this isolated country are just as complex and important as anyone else, despite living under a cruel dictatorship and physically separated from the rest of the world.
Works Cited
JEON, JEI GUK. "The Politics of Mourning Ritual in North Korea (1994-97)." World Affairs, vol. 162, no. 3, winter 2000, p. 126. Gale Academic OneFile, link.gale.com/apps/doc/A61575159/AONE?u=spl_main&sid=bookmark-AONE&xid=01bc085d. Accessed 8 Dec. 2021.
 
The researcher in a book titled World Affairs uses the history of North Korea to analyse the ritual of mourning the death of the president. The purpose of this article is comparing and contrasting the mourning ritual in North Korea to other countries and highlighting the unique aspects of their ritual. Despite being written in the year 2000, this article is very relevant to my paper due to its emphasis on how the average North Korean views the president, as well as the role of the president. This source provides an extensive background on North Korea to support their findings on the mourning ritual. Based on the publisher, this article was intended for students studying history and sociology. Compared to the other sources, this article dives deeper into one aspect of the role of the president, which is less relevant to my paper. 
Widjaja, Fransiskus I., et al. "The religious phenomenon of Juche ideology as a political tool." HTS Teologiese Studies, vol. 77, no. 4, 1 Oct. 2021, p. NA. Gale Academic OneFile, link.gale.com/apps/doc/A661445709/AONE?u=spl_main&sid=bookmark-AONE&xid=d9d2cbd0. Accessed 8 Dec. 2021.
This study aims to determine the reason behind establishing Juche ideology in North Korea and its transformation into a religion despite the influence of communism. This article is the most relevant to my paper compared to the other other articles because it focuses on Juche ideology which is my second subtopic. It is also the most relevant and recent as it was written in 2021 after the death of the last president. This source first dives into the influence of communism and confucianism in North Korea, as well as the view on other major religions. Later, it explains the motive behind establishing Juche as a religion, specifically its use as a means to control the population. This article was intended for a broad audience as it is easy to understand and avoids excessive jargon. It is less dense than the previous article and more useful for my paper. 
Kim, Hyun-Sik. "Reflections on North Korea: the psychological foundation of the North Korean regime and its governing philosophy." International Bulletin of Missionary Research, vol. 32, no. 1, Jan. 2008, pp. 22+. Gale Academic OneFile, link.gale.com/apps/doc/A173923099/AONE?u=spl_main&sid=bookmark-AONE&xid=49b763cb. Accessed 8 Dec. 2021.
This article, written in the International Bulletin of Missionary Research, focuses on the background and context of the regime through the philosophy of Juche. This article is coming from a slightly biased perspective, as it is written through the Christian perspective as opposed to an atheist perspective. Despite this, the study is very dense and covers a variety of topics related to the use of Juche as a tool in the regime. This article was intended for other researchers to use because it is published for a research foundation and is quite dense. For the average person, this study would be too long and possibly hard to follow. It is also slightly outdated, written in 2008, but the historical background section is highly cited and well researched. In contrast to the other sources, this one is much longer and it was much harder to find relevant quotes which werent too long. 
?Although there are multiple war on conflicts, most famously War on Terror and War on Drugs, there are many similarities between all of them despite focusing on completely different issues. What makes these war on conflicts different from normal wars is that normal wars usually have clear opposing sides in the same conflict. On the contrary, war on conflicts cant be clearly defined and the lines between enemy and ally are blurred. Theres a reason why these wars dont contain the name of a specific country such as the Mexican-American war or the Vietnam war. Instead of fighting a distinct group, the enemy is nebulous, its everywhere and nowhere at the same time. The terror in War on Terror cannot be measured, and there are no defined terms at which this war will be over. In fact, the more the media focuses on the terror aspect, the more terrified the people will be. This is essential for understanding the nature of these conflicts. 
	Essentially, the war on conflicts are all about framing. In the War on Terror, instead of focusing on the livelihood of citizens directly affected by the conflict, its about fighting the terror resulting from the conflict. One of the main turning points in the War on Terror is 9/11, prompting the invasion of Afghanistan and resulted in nearly 2 decades of war. By focusing on the conflict from the US perspective, the government was able to justify their involvement up until this point. A minority of Afghans support the USs actions in their country, as they have consistently disrespected their culture and religion. Much like the War on Terror, the War on Journalism in Russia frames the issue of censorship and propaganda through journalism. The problem doesnt lie in journalism in itself, but the effects of information being spread throughout the population. The news in Russia is often inaccurate and misleading for the purpose of keeping Putin in power. Therefore both wars are framed to distract from the main problem by focusing on a consequence of the issue. 
Another similarity between the war on conflicts is that there is often no clear start and end to the war. In class, we discussed multiple potential starting points of the war on terror, and the farther back we went the more complicated it was to figure out the start. Since nothing in history exists in a vacuum, all major events were likely catalyzed by a previous event and built off of each other. In the war on journalism, I had to research as far back as the 1800s, and in the case of China this issue was present over 1000 years ago. Compared to conflicts between countries, the war on wars cannot be traced back to a single event and most dont have a clear end. The US will continue to fight the terror, creating more terror from within.?Fight in NYC neighborhood turns violent; young man murdered by police officer
Last night on the hottest day of the summer, an altercation at Sals Pizzeria turned deadly, resulting in a fire and the death of a young man called Radio Raheem. 
At the popular Italian-American family-owned pizza joint in Bedford-Stuyvesant, a predominantly black neighborhood in Brooklyn, there was a fight between the owner of the pizza place and two young men from the neighborhood that quickly turned into a large-scale tussle involving law enforcement officers and many civilians. What happened that night that ended in a fire that destroyed the entire restaurant and the death of a young man?
 According to witnesses, tensions had already been rising between Buggin Out, a young man from the neighborhood, and Sal, the owner of Sals Pizzeria. A few days earlier, Buggin Out had been publicly kicked out of the restaurant after demanding that Sal, put some brothers up on this wall of fame, a wall in the pizza parlor that only held pictures of Italian Americans (pg. 15). After he was forced out, Buggin Out started yelling, Boycott Sals. Boycott Sals, and began asking others in the neighborhood if they would stand in solidarity and boycott Sals Pizzeria with him (pg. 15).
The night of the incident, right as the restaurant was closing, Radio Raheem and Buggin Out entered the restaurant. Radio Raheem was carrying a radio box that was playing rap music very loudly while Buggin Out demanded of Sal again, we want some Black people up on the Wall of Fame (pg. 77). After Sal again refused to add black people to the Wall of Fame and Radio Raheem refused to turn his music down, a fight broke out after Sal smashed Radio Raheems radio box with a baseball bat. After the fight spilled onto the street, members of the community began to gather, finally storming the pizza place after a chair was thrown through a window by Mookie, a delivery boy for Sals Pizzeria, and eventually setting fire to it. After firefighters and law enforcement arrived, the civilians began to turn on the firefighters and police officers who had come to fight the fire and disperse the crowd. 
After Radio Raheem wouldnt comply with a police officers demands and be taken away peacefully, the police officer strangled Radio Raheem to death in front of the crowd. His body was carried away with the help of other officers and dumped in a police car to be taken away. Additionally, when the mob refused to leave, the firefighters and police officers turned on the civilians, hitting them with batons, handcuffing them, and even turning the fire hoses on them. 
Overall, the night was filled with chaos and the unfortunate death of a young black man, only one incident among many violent racially charged incidents in New York City this summer. Moving forward, hopefully, fewer incidents like the one last night will occur, and both law enforcement and civilians will remember to stay civil in future clashes to avoid any more untimely deaths and destruction of property. 
?Zo? Marie Predmore
George Heinrichs 
History 200 
3 March 2021
i
QUESTION PRESENTED
Amicus is Zo Predmore, President of the United States of America. As leader of the country, she wishes to protect and reinforce the rights of the people of the United States bestowed to all citizens in the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth amendments. Amicus seeks a ruling from this Court that allows for these liberties to be granted to each citizen, regardless of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. 
ii
FACTS OF THE CASE
Though the Civil Rights Act of 1875 granted equality of all men before the law and all people access to public spaces such as theaters, transportation, and hotels, five separate cases of black people being denied access to these areas were reported. The Court is to examine whether or not the Civil Rights Act of 1875 violated the rights of citizens to conduct business as they please in privately owned businesses, as granted in the tenth amendment (The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people). 
 iii
ISSUES AT HAND 
When examining this case, one must not look simply at the tenth amendment, but also those succeeding it; the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth amendments. 
iv
ARGUMENT
The tenth amendment is being used as an excuse to discriminate against people of color in a violation of the thirteenth and fourteenth amendments. The thirteenth amendment abolishes slavery from the United States, an act that, while not specifically mentioning race, was the means by which black people were freed from enslavement. On top of that, in the fourteenth amendment all people born or naturalized in the U.S were made citizens, and are granted the privileges and immunities thereof. The thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth amendments work together to shape the image of true equality in this country. They grant, first, equality to all; no person shall serve another. Second, citizenship to all; each person in this country is equal in the eyes of the law, no matter their skin color. Third, they are granted representation, and the ability to vote for what they believe in. We mustnt see these as free-standing amendments, they are each connected and created to protect the newly given rights of black people in this country. Though they refer to all persons'' all white persons were already granted these rights before, and therefore these amendments should be interpreted as speaking specifically about the freedoms granted to people of color. The purpose of the thirteenth amendment, and likewise the fourteenth and fifteenth, was not simply to end slavery in the way that it was because it would simply resurface with a slightly new face. The amendments were meant to destroy the entire institution of racism. As Justice Harlen quoted in his dissent: It is not the words of the law, but the internal sense of it that makes the law; the letter of the law is the body; the sense and reason of the law is the soul. These amendments were written with the intent of creating all men equal, not so that discrimination would reform in new ways. With the reconstruction of our country we no longer stand for the inequalities faced by black people in this country. After the war, we became a new country, one that represents freedom - real freedom - as well as life, liberty, and property for all of our citizens. However, the issue at hand is not a tenth amendment issue, its a thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth amendment issue as it deals specifically with race. We are not seeing our white citizens similarly denied access to these accommodations. This is an issue specifically affecting black people, as an attempt to uphold the very system of racism we are trying to wipe from this country. Though privately owned businesses claim that they should be regulated as private individuals, these spaces are where people gather as a community. They are places where friends get together, where children play, where families connect. These spaces are unequivocally public spaces as it is where the public goes to come together. These places are as much a part of society as any public park one may gather in, and denying black people access is to treat them as if they are not accepted as people in that society. This is yet another means of alienation.  The Civil Rights act of 1875 does not violate the 10th amendment because these spaces are not to be counted as private associations as they are open to the public and operate in public places. 
The Court may claim they have no jurisdiction to see this case but this is false. The court adjudges, I think erroneously, that Congress is without power, under either the
Thirteenth or Fourteenth Amendment, to establish such regulations (Justice Harlens dissent). These laws are not foreign. This Court passed this very law and gave themselves the authority to reinforce the freedoms of each citizen, no matter their skin color. Yet, they now question their own power of jurisdiction. Did they, and in addition the states, not pass two amendments that stated The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation? This Court gave themselves power they are now too afraid to yield. Is this how we want to shape our country after reconstruction? As a society that grants certain establishments the right to deny a fellow citizen of their liberty simply because of the tone of their skin? Are we to completely disregard the amendments created to give all men freedom in this country? Does our Declaration of Independence not state that ...all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness? We did not go to war so that we may rebuild ourselves as a country blind to the inequalities of our black citizens. We fought for this freedom, and now we must use it to lift up all of our citizens to become a true nation of equality.  
v
BIBLIOGRAPHY
"The Civil Rights Cases." Oyez, www.oyez.org/cases/1850-1900/109us3. Accessed 3 Mar. 2021. https://www.oyez.org/cases/1850-1900/109us3
The 10th amendment of the U.S. Constitution. (n.d.). Retrieved March 02, 2021, from https://constitutioncenter.org/interactive-constitution/amendment/amendment-x
JP Schnapper-Casteras and William Seidleck, Top 10 ways to friend SCOTUS, SCOTUSblog (Aug. 21, 2018, 10:45 AM), https://www.scotusblog.com/2018/08/top-10-ways-to-friend-scotus/
LII: Supreme Court Collection. (n.d.). Retrieved March 02, 2021, from https://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/cases/topics/tog_tenth_amendment.html
10 Supreme court cases about the 14th Amendment. (n.d.). Retrieved March 02, 2021, from https://constitutioncenter.org/blog/10-huge-supreme-court-cases-about-the-14th-amendment
Raymond J. Lucia and Raymond J. Lucia Companies INC. v. Securities and Exchange Commission, Brief amicus curiae of states of Utah, Alabama, Arkansas, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Wisconsin, Wyoming supporting petitioners, https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/17/17-130/37160/20180228234314290_17-130%20tsac%20Utah%20et%20al.pdf
 
Harlen, Josh Marshall. Dissenting opinion. Civil Rights Cases, 1883, Supreme Court of the United States, http://landmarkcases.c-span.org/pdf/Civil%20Rights%20Cases%201883%20-%20Justice%20Harlan%20dissenting.pdf
Urofsky, M. I. (2014). Civil rights cases. Retrieved March 04, 2021, from https://www.britannica.com/topic/Civil-Rights-Cases
		
		
?
Magnetometer (MAG)
Used on the Cassini mission to help record the "direction and strength of magnetic fields around the spacecraft."
How did it work?
As Cassini orbited Saturn, the magnetometers (placed on opposite ends of the spacecraft) recorded data on the magnetic field including strength, direction, and magnitude.
What did we observe?
The bending of Saturn's magnetic field around the liquid water sprays from Enceladus and interactions with water molecules
Information Source https://solarsystem.nasa.gov/missions/cassini/m ission/spacecraft/cassini-orbiter/magnetometer/?
Soviet Seattle:
Enduring Historical Soviet Influence in the Heart of the Soviet of Washington
Nell Marcus George Heinrichs H320
21 May 2022
Contents
Introduction	3
I.The Ringing of Revolution	4-6
II.New Frontiers	7-9
III.Modern Manifestations	10-11
Conclusion	12
Bibliography	13-16
Introduction
A bronze likeness of Vladimir Ilyich Lenin, famed revolutionary and leader of the movement that led to the founding of the Soviet Union, looms over N 36th Street, in the heart of Seattles Fremont neighborhood. At 16 feet, the statue has been the subject of conversation and controversy among the citys residents since its placement in 1995, when it was placed in trust by the Fremont Chamber. In any other city in the United States, such a statue would almost certainly be seen as an unacceptable display of sympathy and commemoration for Lenin, the Soviet Union, and communism as a whole. In Seattle, his past 30 years spent languishing in Fremont have transformed Lenin into a unique character of the neighborhood. Known for its eccentricity, Fremont has made Lenin a part of its annual festivities. During Christmas, youre likely to find colorful lights strung on the imposing figure. During pride month, you might find Lenin fully decked out in drag1. Lenin has, at times, even worn an occasional advertisement for the nearby Taco Del Mar2. Though the statue is not without controversy, for 30 years it has remained. For 30 years, as arguments over the place of Confederate statues have raged across the United States, Lenin remains constant in Seattle. Elsewhere in the United States, the statue is used as evidence of Seattle's unacceptable radicalism and disloyalty to the United States. Though such an extreme assertion may be without a logical basis, it is not ridiculous to wonder: what is it about Seattle that makes it a good home for the Lenin Statue? The statues plaque states that Lenins purpose is to serve as a reminder of an important historical period. The historical period the description refers to, presumably, are the 7 years in which Vladimir Ilyich Lenin founded and presided over the government of the Soviet Union. To remember a nations founding in this way is to also remember the nation itself. The monuments of Washington DC, for example, are a love letter to the United States and its founding principles. Though not quite such an affectionate ode, Seattles Lenin statue serves as a reminder of the now-defunct Soviet Union over its entire history. But its conspicuous location also serves as a reminder of a local, much lesser-known history: that of the city of Seattles complex relationship with the Soviet Union and radicalism at large. Though considerably obscure, the progression of this relationship, from 1917 to 2022, has deeply influenced the city of Seattle.
1 Kennedy
2 Laney
I.The Ringing of Revolution: Bolshevism, Idealism, and Americanism
In November of 1917, an economically and politically turbulent Russia ushered in a new age of governance. The February Revolution earlier that year brought the abdication of former Czar Nicholas II and with it the official end of Russias imperial government. Nicholas was succeeded by a provisional gubernatorial body, the Duma, intended to eventually assist in the transition to a new, more democratic Russian government. But the Duma was ill-prepared to deal with the rising tide of social unrest that would ultimately lead to its overthrow. In November, Russias leftist Bolshevik party, led by Vladimir Lenin, seized power. The global implications of the Bolshevik revolution were immediate. The United States and its allies in World War I, now bereft of one of their most important allies, were hesitant to embrace the newly formed Soviet government. American radicals, on the other hand, saw the revolution as a harbinger of the paradigm shift the global proletariat had been waiting on. Though brutal civil war raged through the Russian countryside until 1922, many leftists in the United States saw Moscow as a beacon of hope amid rising class tensions and economic turmoil at home.
The rapid industrialization of American production expanded the working class and created a need for unionization. The Industrial Workers of the World, or Wobblies, founded in Chicago in 1905, worked tirelessly toward the goal of One Big Union in the years leading up to the Bolshevik Revolution. In 1916, in hopes of achieving this lofty goal, Wobblie members from Seattle planned a demonstration North of the city, in the town of Everett. What resulted was a violent confrontation between the Wobblies and 200 citizen deputies, directed by the Snohomish Sheriff to meet the demonstrators as they arrived at Port Gardner Bay. Up to 12 IWW members were killed in what came to be known as the Everett Massacre. Such was the general climate of political radicalism in Washington in the years between 1900 and 1917. Unions were formed and political dissent was brewing, but resistance from businesses and the government was too strong for these radical efforts to amount to anything. One of the most prominent Washington radicals of the time was Anna Louise Strong, whose political career began in 1916 when she was elected to the Seattle School Board. As a member of the board, she was outspoken about her radical and sometimes unpopular views. For example, Strong was strongly opposed to
U.S involvement in World War I. It was Strongs advocacy for Louise Olivereau, a Wobblie typist involved in distributing anti-war propaganda and charged with sedition, that led the Seattle School Board to issue a recall against Strong3. Having blemished her political career in the United States, the Bolshevik Revolution came at an opportune time for Strong. For the first time, it seemed that a tangible manifestation of her political ideals was possible.
These sentiments were shared among radicals in Seattle and came to a head during the 1919 General Strike. The strike was the first American general strike and was demonstrative of increasing labor unrest succeeding the political excitement of the Bolshevik Revolution and the economic devastation of World War I. Anna Louise Strongs editorial in the Seattle paper Union Record, published two days before the strike on November 4, reads like an impassioned call for
3 Andrews
revolutionary action. It was her claim that the labor movement of Seattle, the United States, and the world at large were headed down a path to, as her articles title suggests, NO ONE KNOWS WHERE!4. This unknowable place, as it turned out, was the United States First Red Scare. Unnerved by the rising labor unrest in the country demonstrated by the Seattle General Strike and the dangerous precedent set by the communist revolution in Russia, US politicians took a hard stance against communism. This period is most remembered for the Palmer Raids, a government-backed crusade against radicalism dedicated to discovering and arresting political insurgents. The First Red Scare also had local implications in Seattle, where, despite the relative failure of the General Strike, political tensions were still running high. In November of 1919, Washington State passed a law banning the IWW due to a violent clash instigated by a Veterans group against the Wobblies office in Centralia5.
Disheartened by the lack of progress being made in Seattle and the United States, many political radicals turned to another option. If revolution could not be brought to the United States, perhaps it was best to set out in search of the revolution. Many American radicals, including Anna Louise Strong, made their way to Russia, hoping to be at the center of the actualization of their ideology. Though some were critical of liberties taken by the new Soviet government that favored the maintenance of power over ideological purity, many American radicals saw Russia as a viable option for a better life, one that was not only more in line with their ideological beliefs, but also, somewhat ironically, yielded more material success. Anna Louise Strong moved to Russia as a foreign correspondent and would become one of the most prolific leftwing journalists of her time. She continued her support for Soviet Russia throughout the rest of her life and later lived and worked in communist China6. For Strong, the Bolshevik Revolution opened a door for a career and life that both aligned with her own radical beliefs and was materially beneficial.
It was this same goal that led several groups of Americans to make the trek to Soviet Russia with the intention of creating and working on agrarian communes. Due to mass immigration and political disorganization, the Soviet government was in need of labor and saw the establishment of communes as an opportunity to import a foreign workforce and sow the seeds for what they saw as the end goal of collectivized agriculture. Certain Americans, sympathetic to the Soviet cause, were more than happy to make the sacrifice. The Society for Technical Aid to Soviet Russia, an American organization that sought to provide political and monetary support to the Soviets, was highly involved in the organization of the communes and in the facilitation of communication between commune members and the Russian government. In 1921, a group of Finnish-American immigrants from Washington met in Kirkland to discuss their plans for a commune in Russia. After deliberation, it was decided that the commune would be called Seattle, for the states largest city and the center of radical politics in Washington. After
4 Transcribed Newspaper Articles.
5 Spath and Black
6 Andrews
gaining approval from the Soviet government, the Seattle commune members worked to pool funds for farming materials. It was in part due to this substantial capital that the commune was able to prosper. Despite conflicts due to national differences and difficulty assimilating into life among the locals of the Russian countryside, the Seattle commune, located deep in the North Caucasian Steppe, was a moderate success compared to the relative failure of other similar American communes. Seattle operated as a commune until 1940 when it was ultimately dissolved. Today, the village of Seiatel, located at the former site of the commune, is all that remains of the political experiment7.
Many of the original commune members were politically involved, particularly in fishing unions and cooperatives, which was common among Washingtons large Finnish population at the time. Some men, including Victor Saulit, were more directly involved in socialist politics. Saulit, the communes third chairman, was an active member of the socialist and later communist parties of the United States. His dedication to the latter was demonstrated by his participation in the founding of the party, an offset of the Emergency Convention of the Socialist Party of America, which was occurring simultaneously. Saulit endured persecution for his beliefs as one of 10,000 arrested during the Palmer Raids8. Saulits ideological dedication lead to his prominent role in the Seattle Commune, as was true for many of its members. Of course, the economic devastation of World War I also served as a primary propellant force for the communes founding members toward a new life in Russia. This economic dissatisfaction made up a large portion of the general attitude of American radicals during this period. Where they once saw an opportunity to bring socialism to the United States through the organization of workers, many, though not all, now saw a dismal wasteland destroyed beyond repair by industrial capitalism. Victor Saulit, on trial in Portland, said of America: No man in this country receives the full product of his toil if he is working for somebody else. Another commune member, Ukrainian Trofim Malich, described his motivation for moving to Russia: America is hell. At every step the working man sees with despair the luxuries of the rich while his brothers moan from unemployment and poverty9. The idealization of Soviet Russia, then, came from a deep dissatisfaction with the American economic, social, and political climate.
7 Bernstein and Cherny
8 Soviet Approved, Saulit Testifies. Communist Defense Witness is Cornered.
9 Mamanov
II.New Frontiers: The Red Scare and Cold War
The Great Depression of the 1930s brought with it a new red wave in Washington state. In the wake of severe economic depression sweeping the state, many turned to the newly formed communist party, which experienced a period of unprecedented growth during this time. James Farley Postmaster General under the Roosevelt administration is quoted as claiming there are forty-seven states in the Union, and the Soviet of Washington10. The comment, though facetious, illustrates the national perception of Washington state at the time. Seattle especially was seen as a hotbed for radical politics. The communist party was able to amass power in Washington partly through the use of so-called communist fronts, organizations that, although they were not officially affiliated with the party, were mainly led by communists. Two of the most influential of these organizations were the Washington Commonwealth Federation, or WCF, and the Washington Pension Union, or WPU, through which the CP was able to elect members to the Washington State legislature on the democratic ticket. Because Russia now promoted a United Front philosophy, the American CP proclaimed its support for the socialist reforms brought by Roosevelts New Deal. This shift in the party created more opportunities for collaboration between democrats and communists. Support for the communists waned, however, when policy changes were made in accordance with Joseph Stalins 1939 Nazi-Soviet pact.
However, the Nazi invasion of the USSR led to a reversal of this policy and a full embrace of the war effort by the American CP, against their ideological persuasions11.
It was not until after the Second World War that souring relations between the US and USSR would bring forth the nation's Second Red Scare. World War II depleted the global economy and left behind two superpowers in the United States and the Soviet Union. Relations between the two quickly took a turn for the worst as the Soviets established satellite governments in Eastern Europe. Freshly scarred from World War II, the Truman Administration saw these actions as fascist expansionism under Stalin. The 1947 Truman Doctrine, which vilified communism and exalted capitalism, established an indirect containment policy for Soviet expansion by supplying military and monetary aid to countries under threat of communism. With it began the Cold War, a period of heightened tension between the two global superpowers that would last until 1991. The Cold Wars impact on Washington State and Seattle was twofold.
Washingtons economy is and was deeply tied to military spending: when military spending was increased rapidly and dramatically to mitigate the threat of war with the Soviets, Washington benefited profusely. Over one million people moved to Washington during the Cold Wars
pre-dtente phase, from 1947 to 1970. The extensive navy base in Bremerton and air station on Whidby Island were funded and expanded primarily during the Cold War years, and the military presence in Washington today has been profoundly shaped by the Cold War. To secure more funding for military spending in Washington, state lawmakers Henry Jackson and Warren G. Magnuson exaggerated their anti-communist views to gain the favor of the federal government.
10 Communism in Washington State
11 Reese
In fact, following Sputnik, Magnuson was instrumental in the acquisition of the $10 million from Congress used to put on the 1962 Seattle Worlds Fair, a demonstration of the technological prowess of the United States in the face of Soviet advancement. Seattles landmark Space Needle still looms tall over the city; a testament to the Cold Wars enduring legacy on Washingtons infrastructure.
Perhaps less easily identified are the cultural, social, and political impacts that underpin the physical evidence of the Cold War. Anti-communist sentiments in Washington State not only shaped the Bremerton Navy Base and Seattle Space Needle, but also paved the way for the unjust persecution of accused communists during the Second Red Scare. By 1946, state republicans had refocused their partys aims to center on the extermination of communism and held a majority for the first time since 1930. One of these newly elected republicans, Albert Canwell, was particularly concerned with the rise of communist insurgency, which he claimed was an existential threat to the sanctity of the American government and way of life. Canwell was the primary proponent of the 1947 resolution which led to the establishment of the Joint Legislative Fact-Finding Committee on Un-American Activities. Canwell, the chairman of the newly-founded committee, dictated that the hearings should only permit the testimony of committee members and approved witnesses. The accused were not provided with an adequate defense nor were they granted the right to cross-examine. In 1948, the Canwell Committee launched an investigation into what they suspected was subversive communist activity at the University of Washington. The universitys Tenure Committee was ultimately left to determine the fate of the six employees who admitted to being party members at some point, only one of whom they voted to terminate. The most contentious of these decisions were those concerning Herbert Phillips and Joseph Buttersworth, who remained active party members at the time of the hearings. This controversy sparked a debate about the level of intellectual autonomy that communists possessed. Committee members wondered whether it was possible to deliver an unbiased education when ones political loyalties lay with a foreign government. The committee considered employment by the university and loyalty to the communist party to be in conflict with one another. UWs position was spelled out in an official statement issued by the Tenure Committee:
These respondents seek and assert the right to remain in the employ of a state which they hope to destroy and, as members of a minority group, seek and assert a right to protection when their own political faith denies any such right to any other minority once Communism becomes dominant. Only the magnanimity of a most benevolent government can be invoked to honor these requests.12
Despite their condemnation of the political affiliations of Phillips and Buttersworth, the Tenure Committee ruled not to fire them, as there was nothing in the tenure code that gave the committee the jurisdiction to do so. This decision was later overruled by the UW Regents, under the direction of UW President Raymond Allen. This decision set a dangerous precedent for
12 Report of the Tenure Committee and Recommendations of UW President Raymond Allen
intellectual persecution in the United States during the early years of the Cold War. Phillips and Buttersworth are two of many professors who would lose their jobs during the Cold War. And though the Canwell Committee was dissolved in 1948, it served as an example for similar
anti-communist state committees across the country.
As anti-communist paranoia began its upward climb in Washington State, the once profound influence of the WPU and other communist front organizations began to waver. In 1948, the WPU pushed for the passing of Initiative 172: a measure that would expand the social safety net for low-income Washingtonians and instate a basic income for the elderly. Despite its success in the elections of 1948, the initiative did not meet its aims. Because the proposal itself indicated no source of funding and the state legislature refused to raise taxes, the additional social security spending, alongside other factors, left no room in the budget and created a deficit within the first year of its implementation. Governer Arther Langlie blamed the fiscal crisis on Initiative 172 and the WPU, claiming the measure was a communist plot to bankrupt our state.13 The WPU was able to sustain itself and continue its support for 172 well enough until 1950, when Langlies antagonism ultimately won out. The WPUs loss of power, and subsequently the delegitimization of communist and socialist politicians in Washington, came as a result of Trumans 1950 Korean War, which the WPU condemned as an imperialist endeavor based on foolish ambitions of containment by proxy. This position, in line with that of the Soviets, was what allowed Langlie to effectively nullify the WPU healthcare initiative and prevent the socialist reforms they hoped to achieve in the future. As the WPU was relegated to obscurity by absolutist Red Scare rhetoric, so too were the benefits their influence may have had.
In some sense, Washington state was an early adopter of the Second Red Scare.
Throughout the early 1950s, wherein renowned senator Joseph McCarthy and the national Red Scare gripped the nation tightly, staunch anti-communist and anti-Soviet policies continued to deplete political radicalism and First Amendment rights throughout Washington. But Washington was also early to reject the Red Scare. By the mid-1950s, the people of Seattle, especially at the UW campus, had become embittered by excessive McCarthyist policies eating away at intellectual liberty. This shift in opinion led to a dispute regarding the universitys loyalty oaths, which forced employees to disavow allegiance to any group unaligned with the values of the institution and the United States; most importantly the communist party. The Supreme Courts 1964 Baggett v. Bullit decision declared UWs loyalty oaths unconstitutional, a huge step away from the deterministic logic that controlled American courts in the 1950s14. Washingtons central role in both the development and relaxation of Cold War policies is a testament to the places profoundly complex and intimate relationship with communism and the Soviet Union. The background of radical politics and Soviet sympathies in Seattle made it especially vulnerable to rapid and unfair policy changes that targeted freedom of thought. At the same time, it was this culture of dissent that began to break down the restrictions of the Second Red Scare.
13 Reese
14 Reese
III.Modern Manifestations: Trash Can Park and the Third Red Scare
After the relaxation of Cold War tensions under the Nixon administration, radical politics and Soviet influence in Seattle entered a period of flux in which it would remain for the next 20 years. Though Seattle was still seen as a radically progressive city, the Cold War virtually diminished all the power Washingtons Communist Party had amassed between 1917 and 1948. Long gone were the Wobblies dreams of One Big Union, and Seattles radicals separated into separate factions. Though the 1960s and 1970s saw some very significant protest movements in Seattle, they were thoroughly removed from the Soviet influence once characteristic of Seattle radicalism. The initial idealism that followed the Bolshevik Revolution, then replaced by Red Scare paranoia, had now faded into relative inconsequence. Though the Soviet Union no longer had any real stake in Seattle, remnants of the connection between the two continued to influence Seattle. In 1973, a sister city association was established between Seattle and Tashkent, Uzbekistan: the first such relationship between a US and Soviet city. The association was formed out of a friendship and academic partnership between the University of Washington and academics in Tashkent that began in the early 1960s. The relationship between the cities remained strong, even in the face of strained relations between the US and USSR between 1975 and 1985. In 1979, in light of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and the boycott of the 1980 Olympics, Seattle vowed, somewhat controversially, to maintain the sister-city relationship. The Seattle-Tashkent Sister City Association was steadfast in its commitment to friendly US-Soviet relationships throughout the 1980s. A 1985 visit of a large delegation from Tashkent to Seattle sent shockwaves through the city and opened the door for a closer relationship between the cities. Seattle became a model for other US-USSR sister cities, emblematic of the desire for peace and communication between the two nations15.
In 1974, a park was dedicated to Tashkent in Seattles Capitol Hill neighborhood. The park, decorated with artwork from Tashkent and Seattle children, was a symbol of the citys unique relationship with the Soviet Union and its belief in a distant harmony between the worlds superpowers. In recent years, long after the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, the park has fallen into disrepair. Though the sister city relationship is still intact, it has faded into the background as the citys homelessness crisis has taken hold in the area. The park, unaffectionately known as Trash Can Park, has all but lost its connection to its own history, obscured by disarray and neglected by the city. Such is the nature of the rich history connecting Seattle to the Soviet Union. Seattles strange Soviet history has faded, at best to a bizarre character in a neighborhood of eccentric liberals and, at worst to a neglected park left to ruin.
What remains is the shadow of radical, Soviet-aligned politics, a reputation that the city cannot shake. Echos of the First and Second Red Scare haunt Seattle as media outlets, citizens, and politicians use the ill-defined threat of communism as a tool to silence protest and dissent. The WTO Protests of 1999, a response to the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference held in Seattle, advocated against the disastrous effects of trade globalization. The conservative
15History
medias response to WTO painted the protestors as violent anarchists who defied global progress and disrupted the city, distracting the conversation from the protestors actual aims. These same tools were used by media outlets in response to the occupation of Capitol Hill in June of 2020, wherein protestors seized six city blocks and established a self-proclaimed autonomous zone in response to the murder of George Floyd. The occupied area, known as the Capitol Hill Occupied Protest (CHOP) and later the Capitol Hill Autonomous Zone (CHAZ), was framed by the media as a perverse anarchic settlement of militant communist insurgents. Fox News headline, accompanied by a photo of burning buildings not in Seattle but in St. Paul, reads CRAZY TOWN: Seattle helpless as armed guards patrol anarchists autonomous zone16. The legacy of communism and the Soviet Union in Seattle, then, had become not a facet of the citys history, but a pressing issue of the citys present.
16 Fox News digitial front page 11 June 2020 via Brunner
Conclusion
The relationship between Seattle and the Soviet Union, beginning in 1917, has proved instrumental in the formation of the political, economic, and social landscape of current-day Seattle. Though perhaps not easily spotted, the memory of the Soviet Union is deeply present in Seattle. In many ways, Anna Louise Strong was not wrong in her prediction that the Seattle General Strike would lead the city to new places. Strongs vision, rife with post-Bolshevik Revolution idealism, was of a socialist Seattle, controlled by the workers. Nothing of the sort exists today. Strong would be saddened to hear of the failure of Initiative 172, which left a hole in Washington's social safety net, the ramifications of which are still felt today. She would be even more disheartened to hear that the weaponization of the accusation of communism is still a common conservative tactic in 2022. But the Bolshevik Revolution and General Strike, though they did not propel the city into revolution, do represent the beginning of Seattles complex and varied relationship with political radicalism and the Soviet Union. This little-known history is present in the everyday lives of Seattlites. Places like the Space Needle, Bremerton Naval Base, and Tashkent Park serve as physical reminders of the economic and social ramifications of the Cold War in Washington. Surrounded by these artifacts, the city of Seattle watches the living legacy of the First and Second Red Scare play out through the ostracism of protest on the basis of unfounded accusations of revolutionary communist schemes. Post-Soviet Seattle is, so to speak, haunted by the specter of communism.
Bibliography
A Brief History of the Communist Party in Washington State 1919-2002. Communism in Washington State History and Memory Project, University of Washington, 2009, https://depts.washington.edu/labhist/cpproject/history.shtml.
Andrews, Mildred. Strong, Anna Louise (1885-1970).History Link, The Free Encyclopedia of Washington State History, 7 Nov. 1998, https://www.historylink.org/File/255.
Becker, Paula. Seattle Public Library Fires Foreign-Books Librarian Natalie Notkin on February 2, 1932. History Link, The Free Encyclopedia of Washington State History, 6 Apr. 2012, https://www.historylink.org/File/3971.
Becker, Paula. Librarian Natalie Notkin, Unjustly Accused of Communism, Defends Herself in a Letter to the Seattle Public Library. History Link, The Free Encyclopedia of Washington State History, 24 Mar. 2012, https://www.historylink.org/File/10048.
Bernstein, Seth, and Robert Cherny. Seattle/Seiatel': The American Commune in the Soviet Union, 1922-1939. Strike: Seattle General Strike Project, University of Washington, 2021, https://depts.washington.edu/labhist/strike/seattle_commune.shtml.
Brunner, Jim. Fox News Runs Digitally Altered Images in Coverage of Seattles Protests, Capitol Hill Autonomous Zone. The Seattle Times, 12 June 2020, https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/politics/fox-news-runs-digitally-altered-image s-in-coverage-of-seattles-protests-capitol-hill-autonomous-zone/.
Communism in Washington State. Communism in Washington State History and Memory Project, University of Washington, 2009, https://depts.washington.edu/labhist/cpproject/.
Continetti, Matthew. The Seattle Soviet. National Review, 20 June 2020, https://www.nationalreview.com/2020/06/seattle-protest-zone-doomed-to-fail/.
Crowley, Walt. Washington State Politics  Its Past, Present, and Utterly Unpredictable Future. History Link, The Free Encyclopedia of Washington State History, 4 May 2003, https://www.historylink.org/File/5451.
Friedheim, Robert L., The Seattle General Strike (Seattle: University of Washington Press, 1964), 56, 57, 110-111, 195 (footnote 12), https://www.historylink.org/File/739.
Golden, Hallie. Fremonts giant Vladimir Lenin statue carries a complicated historylocally and globally. Curbed, Vox Media, 27 Aug. 2019, https://seattle.curbed.com/2019/8/27/20830552/seattle-fremont-vladimir-lenin-statue-hist ory.
Gregory, James. Special Section: Radicalism. The Great Depression in Washington State Project, University of Washington, 2009, https://depts.washington.edu/depress/radicalism.shtml.
History. Seattle-Tashkent Sister City Association, https://seattle-tashkent.org/history-2/. Kennedy, Niall. Lenin Statue in Drag. Flickr, 26 June 2005,
https://www.flickr.com/photos/niallkennedy/21778419.
Laney, Kirby Lindsay. Exhibiting A Sense Of Humor With The Lenin Statue. The Fremocentrist, 23 Aug. 2017,
https://fremocentrist.com/commentary/exhibiting-a-sense-of-humor-with-the-lenin-statue. Lange, Greg. Union Record publishes Anna Louise Strong's Seattle General Strike editorial on
February 4, 1919. History Link, 18 Jan. 1999, https://www.historylink.org/File/739. Mamanov, Mikhail M., Glubokie Korni, (Rostov-na-Donu: Rostovskoe Knizhnoe Izdatelstvo,
1968), p. 8. https://depts.washington.edu/labhist/strike/seattle_commune.shtml#_edn49.
Morales, Ramn. The Seattle Soviet. Left Voice, 28 June 2020, https://www.leftvoice.org/the-seattle-soviet/.
Oakrock, Barbara E. The Seattle-Tashkent Peace Park. Landscape Architecture, vol. 78, no. 2, 1988, pp. 7682, http://www.jstor.org/stable/44676648.
Reese, Michael. The Cold War and Red Scare in Washington State. Center for the Study of the Pacific Northwest, University of Washington Department of History, https://depts.washington.edu/cspn/resources/curriculummaterials/cold-war/.
Report of the Tenure Committee and Recommendations of UW President Raymond Allen. Communism and Academic Freedom, 29-54, 85-109, http://depts.washington.edu/pnq/Website/Classroom%20Materials/Curriculum%20Packet s/Cold%20War%20&%20Red%20Scare/Documents/31.html.
Salter, Daren. Witness to Revolution: The Story of Anna Louise Strong. Communism in Washington State History and Memory Project, University of Washington, 2009, https://depts.washington.edu/labhist/cpproject/AnnaStrong.shtml#:~:text=With%20the%2 0Seattle%20labor%20movement,the%20American%20Friends%20Service%20Committe e.
Soviet Approved, Saulit Testifies. Communist Defense Witness is Cornered. [Portland] Morning Oregonian, March 17, 1920, p. 1, https://depts.washington.edu/labhist/strike/seattle_commune.shtml#_edn50.
Spath, Marian, and Gordon Black. Timeline. Communism in Washington State History and Memory Project, University of Washington, 2009, https://depts.washington.edu/labhist/cpproject/timeline.shtml.?First Wave Feminism:
-Womens suffrage
-Main goal of the first wave of feminism
-Seneca Falls, 1848 Led by Elizabeth Cady Stanton, a young mother from upstate New York, and the Quaker abolitionist Lucretia Mott
-Frederick Douglass spoke in support of the voting rights resolution
-Susan B. Anthony, a Massachusetts teacher
-Leaders were active in the abolitionist movement
-Following the civil war, they pushed for women's suffrage
-Pushed for guaranteed rights during reconstruction
-After the emancipation of four million enslaved African Americans, Radical Republicans in Congress proposed a constitutional amendment extending citizenship rights and equal protection under the law to all persons born or naturalized in the United States. Whether those rights would include women was unclear, and debates in both houses of Congress focused on defining citizenship.
-The 14th amendment was the first to include gender in the constitution; affording suffrage only to male citizens
-Congress ignored calls for women's suffrage in 1869 and passed the 15th amendment in 1870
-They won voting rights in Wyoming in 1869
-Stanton denounced giving voting rights to african american men while women did not have them - she praised the virtues of educated white women and did not believe that african americans or immigrants were prepared to exercise the rights of citizens
-As a leader, Stantons beliefs alienated african american women in the fight for suffrage 
-Stanton and Anthony created the National Woman Suffrage Association (NWSA) in 1869 and aimed at individual states to amend their voting laws to cause a ripple effect the movement stalled
-Also in 1869, Lucy Stone, a one-time Massachusetts antislavery advocate and a prominent lobbyist for womens rights formed the American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA) 
-As abolitionists, they employed the same tactics and AWSA flooded states with petitions in favor of womens suffrage
-The two groups came together in the late 1880s to form the NAWSA
-In an 1898 address to the NAWSA, African-American activist Mary Church Terrell decried these injustices, while remaining hopeful not only in the prospective enfranchisement of my sex but in the emancipation of my race.
-The NAWSA was led by Stanton then Anthony and it was far less welcoming to women of color
-Colorado (1893), Utah (1896), and Idaho (1896)
-In Illinois, future Congresswoman Ruth Hanna McCormick assisted as a lobbyist in Springfield where the state legislature adopted womens suffrage in 1913, the first such victory in a state east of the Mississippi.
-Women won the right to vote the next year in Montana, thanks in part to the efforts of another future Congresswoman, Jeannette Rankin.
-In 1913 Alice Paul, a young Quaker activist who participated in the militant British suffrage movement, formed the Congressional Union, later named the National Womans Party (NWP), as a rival to the NAWSA. Pauls group adopted the British tactics of picketing, mass rallies, marches, and civil disobedience to raise awareness and support.
-In 1915 Carrie Chapman Catt, the veteran suffragist and former NAWSA president, returned to lead the organization.
-The right to run in office
-The right to own land and property
-Citizenship rights
-Original nationality legislation did not mention sex 1790, 1795, and 1802, but did limit it to free white persons
-1804 legislation began to make distinctions about married women
-A womans marital status determined her citizenship because she adopted that of her husband
-Many courts did not allow unmarried women to become citizens
-Mostly only widows and spinsters would seek personal citizenship 
-Women were not often seen as persons under the law
-1855 immigrant women could gain citizenship through marriage to a citizen
-Between 1866 and 1907, no woman lost her citizenship through marriage to a foreigner
-1907 legislation linked a womans status to her husbands 
-March 2nd 1907, all women married after that date automatically gained their husbands marital status
-1918 problems arose as courts would not grant men citizenship to prevent their wives from voting as the suffrage amendment was passed in more states
-September 22nd 1922 married women's act/cable act
-In 1940, congress allowed all women who lost their citizenship to marriage to regain it only with the oath of allegiance
-The right to personal economy
-Women were expected to volunteer to do the jobs that were left by men who were drafted for WWI
-Changing view of what a woman could do
-The expectation that women should not be paid for the same work a man was doing and should volunteer to not be paid
-
-Right to education
-Rights to act as witnesses
Timeline 
-1790, 1795, and 1802 nationality legislation did not mention sex and all free white persons could be naturalized
-1797 New Jersey made history by recognizing the right of women to vote
-1804 Nationality legislation began to include limitations based on marital status and sex
-1807 The New Jersey Assembly passed a law limiting suffrage to free white males
-1848 Seneca Falls Womens Convention
-1855 Immigrant women could gain citizenship through marriage to a citizen
-1861 Civil war start
-1865 Civil war end
-1866 14th amendment was passed. No woman lost her citizenship through marriage to a foreigner.
-1868 14th amendment was ratified and became the first part of the constitution to explicitly mention sex
-1869 Women could vote in the Territory of Wyoming. The National Woman Suffrage Association (NWSA) and the American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA) were founded
-1870 Women could vote in the Territory of Utah. The 15th amendment is passed, ignoring calls for a guarantee of womens suffrage.
-1883 Women could vote in the Territory of Washington
-1887 Women could vote in the Territory of Montana
-Late 1880s the joining of the NWSA and the AWSA
-1890 Women could vote inWyoming
-1893 Women could vote in Colorado
-1896 Women could vote in Utah and Idaho
-1907 Legislation linked a womans status to her husbands
-1910 Women could vote in Washington
-1911 Women could vote in California
-1912 Women could vote in Arizona, Kansas, and Oregon
-1913 Women could vote in the Territory of Alaska
-1913 Illinois the first state East of the Mississippi River to grant women suffrage. Alice Paul founded the National Womans Party (NWP).
-1914 Women could vote in Montana and Nevada
-1914 WWI starts
-1917 Women could vote in New York
-1917 Women could vote in Nebraska, Ohio, Indiana, North Dakota, and Rhode Island
-1918 Women could vote in Michigan, Oklahoma, and South Dakota.
-1918 Problems arose as courts would not grant men citizenship to prevent their wives from voting as the suffrage amendment was passed in more states
-1918 WWI ends
-1919 Women could vote in Iowa, Maine, Minnesota, Missouri, Tennessee, and Wisconsin
-1920 Women could vote in Alabama, Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas, Vermont, Virginia, and West Virginia
-1922 Married Women's Act/Cable Act was passed and afforded women independent citizenship from their husbands. They could and had to apply the same way as men.
-1929 great depression start
-1933 great depression end
-1939 WWII start
-1940 congress allowed all women who lost their citizenship to marriage to a foreigner to regain it only with the oath of allegiance
-1945 WWII end
https://www.archives.gov/publications/prologue/1998/summer/women-and-naturalization-1.html
https://history.house.gov/Exhibitions-and-Publications/WIC/Historical-Essays/No-Lady/Womens-Rights/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-wave_feminism
https://tag.rutgers.edu/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/suffrage-by-state.pdf
https://constitutionallawreporter.com/amendment-19/
https://www.womenshistory.org/exhibits/feminism-third-wave
https://medium.com/lessons-from-history/a-brief-history-of-the-first-wave-of-feminism-59d58e52af23
https://www.vox.com/2018/3/20/16955588/feminism-waves-explained-first-second-third-fourth
https://www.britannica.com/explore/100women/rise-of-feminism
https://www.archives.gov/legislative/features/suffrage
https://www.docsteach.org/documents/document/douglass-petition-woman-suffrage
Introduction 
The first wave of active feminism is best known for the suffragettes and the fight for voting rights for women, but women of the first wave of active feminism held many more goals. Feminists fought for rights to education, property ownership, personal citizenship, personal economy, and participation in government. The feminists of the time chose to focus on the right to vote more than their other goals because they did not have the resources to mobilize enough to achieve each. The fight for suffrage began long before the Seneca Falls Womens convention, but the convention is where women truly began to organize themselves in pursuit of suffrage. The convention was led by Elizabeth Stanton in 1848 and many women attended. The suffragettes were also majority abolitionists, so they had the support of abolitionists who may not have been attracted to their cause otherwise. After the emancipation of millions of slaves, the option of naturalizing or being citizens through birth in the states was extended to all free men, removing the previous provision that only white men could be naturalized. Women however, were still not granted personal citizenship and their citizenship was fully dependent on that of their husbands. With the ratification of the 14th amendment in 1868, the constitution officially overtly mentioned sex. Congress ignored calls for constitutional protection of womens suffrage also in the passing of the 15th amendment in 1870. While the constitution did not guarantee suffrage to women, a few territories had granted them the right to vote by 1870. In spite of these strides toward suffrage for women that the states were taking, many suffragettes were outraged that congress did not honor their petitions for constitutionally protected rights. An example of this is in comments made by Stanton praising the educated white woman and claiming her education made her ready to vote in United States democracy, whereas African Americans and naturalized immigrants lacked such preparedness to exercise the rights of a citizen. The issue of clashes between certain women and other minority groups became increasingly important and divisive as time moved on, but at the time, Stanton received little backlash. With the fight for suffrage left up to the states, the feminsit party split: Stanton and Susan B. Anthony created the National Woman Suffrage Association (NWSA) in 1869 and aimed at individual states to amend their voting laws to cause a ripple effect: Also in 1869, Lucy Stone, a one-time Massachusetts antislavery advocate and a prominent lobbyist for womens rights formed the American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA). While the NWSA took more personal steps in attempting to change the states legislature, the AWSA took the same approach that Stone had when advocating for emancipation. The AWSA flooded state congresses with petitions in support of womens suffrage, but both the NWSA and the AWSA had little success in swaying states. The two groups eventually came together in the late 1880s to form the NAWSA. This new association was led by Stanton then Anthony, and was far less welcoming of women of color than the AWSA had been. However, success was found as states began to grant women suffrage. Finally, after decades of petitioning, congress passed the 19th amendment and it was ratified, granting constitutional protections for womens suffrage in every state. Unfortunately, because the citizenship of a husband determined the status of his wife, courts became reluctant to grant immigrants citizenship because they wanted to prevent the wives from voting. The problem grew until 1922 when women were given personal citizenship, allowing them to obtain citizenship in the same way a man would. The apparent activism of the time died down after suffrage was granted, possibly because of the recent WWI and the great depression into WWII. it is important to note that feminism did not die down, the activism for feminism did. It would be around 4 decades until feminist activism reached another peak, and at that peak, the issues of the alientation of certain women from the early feminist movement would also peak.
Second Wave Feminism:
-Late 1960s the revival of feminism 
-Simone de Beauvoir published her book The Second Sex in France in 1949
-The book was published in the U.S. in 1953 
-The Second Sex held many defintions of womanhood and explained the history of opression against women
-Beauvoir defines what is a woman? in her book and determines one is not born but becomes a woman.
-Betty Friedan released her book The Feminine Mystique in 1963 
-Friedan built off Beauvoirs work, but also incorporated oral accounts of womens histories and interviews with other white housewives 
-The book contained uniting accounts of malaise and dissatisfaction among women
-By showing that many women felt the same about their secondary roles, Friedans book helped to ignite the second wave
-Led by Esther Peterson, a group of women led to President John F. Kennedy signing the Equal Pay Act of 1963 into law 
-The act stated that women could not be paid less for comparable work to a man
-https://youtu.be/o5JktYOxkkg
-Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 potected workers from discrimination based on race, religion, sex, or national orgin
-Griswold v. Connecticut Supreme Court ruling of 1965 protected womens access to contraceptives
-Women of color
-The Civil rights movement was in full swing at the time of the second wave of feminism, so women of color who had been fighting for their rights as people of color began to also fight for their rights as women
-Frances M. Beal wrote an essay Double Jeopardy: To Be Black and Female
-Beal noted the exploitation of black women in society and the differences in experience between white and non-white feminists
-In 1969, Friedan stepped down from leading the National Organization for Women (NOW), a organization she co-founded
-NOW was radically inclusive, but concerns of black women were often sidelined and Friedan had clashed with black members about her use of the 1964 Title VII of the Civil Rights Act to advocate for jobs for white women when many black americans faced job discrimination and lived under the poverty line
-By 1969, black women had begun their own organizations
-National Black Feminist Organization (NBFO) in 1973
-The Combahee River Collective formed in 1974
-The collective also focused on issues of sexuality, unlike NBFO and other organizations
-They were the first organization to openly advocate intersectionality of race, sex, sexuality, and class, where others would only focus on race and sex
-Angela Davis published articles and essays on the experience of black feminists and published Women, Race & Class in 1981
-The term Black feminism grew to mean what we would now call intersectional feminism as women of color wrote books, essays, and articles illustrating that their feminism meant equality for all
-Womanism was coined by Alice Walker, an author and black feminism activist, and the term was used interchangably with black feminism
-Lesbian feminists
-With the pick up of the LGBTQ+ rights movement in the 1960s and after Stonewall in 1969, lesbians began to branch off to create their own organizations seperate from those run by men
-Lesbians and other gay women attempted to join and bring their issues to NOW, but they were rejected
-They held a demonstration at the Second Congress to Unite Women in 1970
-The NOW acknowledged them and adopted a resolution acknowledging lesbian rights in 1971
-The NOW also created the NOW Task Force on Sexuality and Lesbianism in 1973
-Queer women of color also began to join the femist movement after the inclusive changes
-Reproductive rights
-The birth control pill was introduced to market in 1960
-The sale was illegal in many states
-Many religions held in their opposition to contraceptives
-In 1965, in GRISWOLD V. CONNECTICUT, the supreme court ruled that sale of contraceptives to married couples was an infringement on the constitutional right to privacy 
-1972 EISENSTADT V. BAIRD the supreme court ruled that unmarried people could not be barred from purchasing contraceptives because of a lack of rational reasoning on why married and unmarried individuals should be treated differently when it comes to access to contraceptives
-1973 Roe v. Wade the supreme court ruled that the right to abortion was constitutionally protected
-Sexual revolution 
-With women questioning their roles and with narratives about women changing, women began to embrace their sexuality
-The sexual revolution was the understanding that women had the same sexual desires as men and deserved to be treated equally in their sexual endeavors
-Conservatives fought against this embrace of sexual identity as it attacked the long held American idenety of family values
-While men were praised for their sexual conquests women are shamed for having sexual relations or even desires outside of wedlock
-The release of the birth control pill was a convenient scapegoat for conservatives as they could use the empowerment it gave to women of family planning to blame promiscuity on it
-Conservatives fought against the pill because it allowed women sexual freedom by seperating sex and procreation
-They argued that the risk of pregnancy is what prevents women from premarital sex and affairs
-Studies by the creators of the pill contradicted conservative claims, showing that women were having premarital sex at the same rates, they were just using less effective forms of contraception 
-While conservatives framed the sexual revolution as an even caused by access to family planning tools, the sexual revolution resulted from the illumination of the womans sexual experience
-The efforts to destigmatize women and sex continue to this day with calls to increase sexual education and with anti-slut-shaming media initiatives 
-Bra burning protest of 1968
-Women protested the Miss America pageant in New Jersey in 1968 with the purpose of protesting unrealistic beauty standards
-They threw bras, high heels, playboy magazines, and other representers of beauty standards into trash cans
-No fire was lit, but a reporter compared them to Vietnam War protesters and the myth that fires were ignited spread
-This is where the stereotype of angry, man-hating feminists comes from
-Womens liberation movement
-Gloria Steinem wrote an expose on the low wages and sexism that faced women in clubs such as Playboy
-She spoke in 1969 publically for abortion rights in New York
-She began New York and Ms. magizines that covered political issues such as abortion and rape
-Equal Rights Amendment
-Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex.
-Introduced by Alice Paul in 1923
-1972 ERA is passed by the senate
-It would have been the 27th amendment
-Hawaii was the first to ratify it and 30 others followed within one year
-With a conservative backlash against it, it failed to get 38 states to ratify it
-Because the amendment has yet to be ratified, womens rights, aside from that to vote, are not constitutionally protected 
-Virginia has become the final state needed to ratify the amendment and the Biden administration has pledged to pass it in the first 100 days
-The amendment has been ratified but has yet to be added to the constitution due to a bureaucratic rule that it an amendment must be ratified within 7 years of its passage 
-Members of the senate, house, and congress are currently trying to exempt the ERA from that rule
-Ratified states
-1972 Alaska, California, Colorado, Delaware, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Texas, West Virginia
-1973 Connecticut, Minnesota, New Mexico, Oregon, South Dakota, Vermont, Washington, Wisconsin, Wyoming
-1974 Maine, Montana, Ohio
-1975 North Dakota
-1977 Indiana
-2018 Illinois
-2017 Nevada
-2020 Virginia
-Marital rape
-Until the 1970s, all states had an exception to rape cases if the rapist and victim were married 
-By 1993 all 50 states removed their marital rape exceptions 
-The reasons are; the british common law view that there is a right to sex in a marriage contract and the spouse gave their consent for all time by entering the contract; the traditional view of wives being property; and the public interest of maintaining privacy in personal relationships
-1976 Nebraska is the first state to throw out the marital rape exception
-Led by the womens movement of the 1970s
-Twenty of the states that have kept the distinction grant immunity to a husband who has sex with his wife while she is unconscious or otherwise incapable of giving consent.
-Take back the night
-1978 the first Take Back the Night March in the U.S. was held in San Francisco to protest against violence against women, particularly sexual assult 
-Most occurances of sexual assult are by someone the victim knows, but women still have a fear of walking at night because of the chance of being sexually assulted
-Since the first in 1978, many more Take Back the Night Marches have been held in the U.S.
-Education 
-Job opportunity/equality
-The second wave began around 5 years after the vietnam war began and ended around 5 years after the war ended
-Feminist activism and womens rights protests went on at the same times as anti war protests
-Vietnam war - 1955 to 1975
-The wave ended in the early 1980s 
-One of the key dividers between feminists became their stances on sexuality 
-Feminists split in many ways, but one of the greatest was between anti-porn feminists and sex-positive feminists
Timeline: 
-1923 ERA is introduced by Alice Paul
-1949 Simone de Beauvoir published her book The Second Sex in France 
-1953 The book was published in the U.S.
-1955 Vietnam start
-1960 The birth control pill was introduced to market
-1963 Betty Friedan released her book The Feminine Mystique
-1963 Equal Pay Act of 1963 into law 
-1964 Title VII of the Civil Rights Act
-1965 Griswold v. Connecticut 
-1968 Bra Burning Protest
-1969 Stonewall
-1969 Black women had begun their own organizations
-1970 Lesbians held a demonstration at the Second Congress to Unite Women 
-1971 The NOW adopted a resolution acknowledging lesbian rights
-1972 Eisenstadt v. Baird 
-1972 ERA is passed by the senate
-1972 ERA is ratified by Alaska, California, Colorado, Delaware, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Texas, West Virginia
-1973 ERA is ratified by Connecticut, Minnesota, New Mexico, Oregon, South Dakota, Vermont, Washington, Wisconsin, Wyoming
-1973 The NOW created the NOW Task Force on Sexuality and Lesbianism
-1973 Roe v. Wade
-1973 National Black Feminist Organization (NBFO)
-1974 The Combahee River Collective formed 
-1974 ERA is ratified by Maine, Montana, Ohio
-1975 ERA is ratified by North Dakota
-1975 Vietnam end
-1976 Nebraska is the first state to throw out the marital rape exception
-1977 ERA is ratified by Indiana
-1978 the first Take Back the Night March in the U.S. was held in San Francisco
-1981 Angela Davis published articles and essays on the experience of black feminists and published Women, Race & Class
-1993 All 50 states removed their marital rape exceptions 
-2018 ERA is ratified by Illinois
-2017 ERA is ratified by Nevada
-2020 ERA is ratified by Virginia
https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/equal-rights-amendment-passed-by-congress#:~:text=On%20March%2022%2C%201972%2C%20the,on%20the%20basis%20of%20sex.
https://www.equalrightsamendment.org/history
https://my.lwv.org/south-carolina/hilton-head-island-bluffton-area/article/equal-rights-amendment-2021
https://www.womenshistory.org/exhibits/feminism-second-wave
https://www.ushistory.org/us/57b.asp
https://www.oyez.org/cases/1971/70-17
https://www.oyez.org/cases/1964/496
https://www.criminaldefenselawyer.com/resources/criminal-defense/crime-penalties/marital-rape.htm
https://www.criminaldefenselawyer.com/resources/criminal-defense/crime-penalties/marital-rape.htm
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second-wave_feminism
https://www.montana.edu/women/takebackmarch.html#:~:text=The%20first%20Take%20Back%20the%20Night%20March%20in%20the%20US,and%20taking%20on%20many%20forms.
https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/features/pill-and-sexual-revolution/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miss_America_protest
https://www.equalrightsamendment.org/era-ratification-map
https://www.cliohistory.org/click/politics-social/revival
https://www.thoughtco.com/1970s-feminism-timeline-3528911
https://www.thoughtco.com/goals-of-the-feminist-movement-3528961
https://www.vox.com/2018/3/20/16955588/feminism-waves-explained-first-second-third-fourth
https://peoplesworld.org/article/netflix-feminists-film-on-1970s-womens-movement-shows-work-still-to-do/
https://www.wbur.org/news/2019/06/10/boston-combahee-river-collective-intersectional-black-feminism
https://cce.bard.edu/events/black-radical-feminisms-the-combahee-river-collective-with-alaya-carr
https://www.nyclgbtsites.org/site/womens-liberation-center/
https://sites.williams.edu/engl113-f18/flagler/a-brief-history-of-rape-law/
https://sites.williams.edu/engl113-f18/flagler/a-brief-history-of-rape-law/
https://www.thoughtco.com/the-womens-strike-for-equality-3528989
https://youtu.be/o5JktYOxkkg
https://www.redbookmag.com/body/pregnancy-fertility/g4283/what-birth-control-was-like-in-every-decade/
The revival of feminist activism occured in the mid 60s. Many attribute the rise in activism to and increase in feminist literature and ideas, an example of which being The Second Sex by Simone de Beauvior. The book was originally published in France in 1949, but it was adapted and publed in the United States in 1953. In her book, Beauvoir defines many expressions of womanhood and explains the long history of oppression of women. One of her most important definitions is that of a woman. Beauvoir attempts to define woman and she came to the idea that one is not born but becomes a woman. The book and its definitions of the female experience stir up the female community, but it was not until Betty Friedan released her book, The Feminine Mystique in 1963 that the movement of the second wave began. Friedan builds off of Beauvoir in her book, but adds personal accounts she collected from housewives. Friedan was a journalist and writer before settling down with a family and becoming a housewife. She found that she was unfulfilled without her work as a writer, and in her interviews she found that many women shared her sentiment. With the unification that The Feminine Mystique brought to dissatisfied housewives, women began a crusade to redefine female roles to include work outside the home. The women wanted equal working opportunities and conditions, to remove the expectation that they would become subservient to their families and give up their dreams. A great step toward equality in the workplace was taken in 1963 when a group of women led by Esther Peterson led President John F. Kennedy to sign the Equal Pay Act into law. The act stated that companies could no longer pay women less for equal work to a man. But, the momentum only picked up from there when Title VII of the Civil Rights Act was passed in 1964, protecting workers from discrimination on basis of race, religion, sex, or national origin. These two laws that provided protections for women in the workplace were then used by feminist groups like the Ntional Organization for Women (NOW) to promote women getting jobs and having personal economy. 
Women were also taking part in many other revolutionary movements at this time, helping shape the feminism they had and what we have today.
The civil rights movement had been going on for a long time by the time the second wave of feminist activism begun, so women of color who had been fighting for their rights as people of color would also fight for their rights as women. Unfortunately, in both movements, their concerns were often brushed to the side. Black and brown women flocked to the NOW, which was radically inclusive, but there were disputes over Friedans (a co-founder and the leader of NOW at the time) about the usage of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act. Women of color disagreed with Friedans use of the title to encourage white women to enter the workforce as many people of color faced greater job discrimination and were below the poverty line. The women left the NOW to form their own organizations specifically for women of color. By 1969, black women had begun their organizations, including the National Black Feminist Organization (NBFO). Later, in 1974, the Combahee River Collective formed as an even more inclusive organization that NOW and NBFO. The collective focused on issues of women from all different backgrounds and included women of different races, sexualities, and classes. They were the first group to openly advocate for the intersectionality of race, sex, sexuality, and class where others would only focus on race and sex. Because of the inclusivity of these groups, Black Feminism grew to mean what we would now call intersectional feminism, that is, the belief that everyone deserves equality and human rights. Though, to prevent confusion, Womanism was a term coined by Alice Walker, an author and black feminist activist, and the term became interchangable with Black Feminism.
Another movement going on in the late 60s was the pickup of the LGBTQ+ rights movement. After Stonewall in 1969, lesbians began to participate in more activism for their sexuality and began to bransh off from the main movement run by men to create seperate organizations. Queer women were less welcomed by the NOW than black women were, as they were rejected when they attempted to join and bring their issues to the organization. To protest the rejection, they held a demonstration at the Second Congress to Unite Women in 1970, leading to the NOW adopting a resolution acknowledging the rights of queer women in 1971. With the resoltuion in place and the later creation of the NOW Task Force on Sexuality and Lesbianism in 1973, queer women of color began to join the feminist movemnet as well. Lesbians and queer women were generally accepted into the feminist movemnet until later nearing the end of the second wave that they were associated with violent pornography and became the targets of extreme anti-porn feminists. However, it is more likley that those who targeted queer women were looking for an excuse and were unable to find such a good one until the close of the second wave. 
Women were also going through a sexual revolution with the second wave with the introduction of the birth control pill to markets in 1960. At the time of the introduction, women were questioning their roles and the changing narratives of what it meant to be a woman allowed many to embrace their sexuality. The sexual revolution was the understanding that women have the same sexual desires and men and deserve to be treated equally in their sexual endeavors. The sexual revolution has paved the way for current an previous calls for increased sexual education and anti-slut shaming initiatives. The freedom that the revolution provided to women angered many conservatives, so family planning programs and tools were fought against. When the pill was first introduced, its sale was illegal in many states and religions spoke out about their opposition to the contraceptive. In 1965 though, in Griswold v. Connecticut, the supreme court ruled that the sale of contraceptives to married couples is protected under the constitutional right to privacy. This allowed married couples to engage in intercourse without such a high risk of procreation and allowed for women to have more freedom in their relationships. The protections on the sale of contraceptives went further in 1972 when in Eisenstadt v. Baird, the supreme court ruled that the distinction between married and unmarried individuals had no logical basis, so the criminalization of contraceptive sale to unmarried individuals is unconstitutional. This led to single women having much more freedom and allowed them to have more successful careers. While conservatives cried out against the protection of contraceptives, saying that the tools would lead to an increase in promiscuity in women, rates of premarital sex did not increase in any significant way. Conservatives continued their outrage at the access to family planning and continued to perpetrate sexist views of sexuality, men being conquerors and women being conquests. Those views would not change, however the changes in how society viewed womens sexuality would continue to change. Gloria Steinem wrote an expose on the PlayBoy Club after going undercover as a PlayBoy Bunny. She wrote about the horrible conditions that faced women in the club and about the low wages and sexism they faced in their work. After publishing her book, Steinem began the New York and Ms. magazines, in which she discussed abortion, suxual assult, and other such issues. In 1973, the right to abortion was granted in the supreme court decision of Roe v. Wade, but attacks on abortion rights would and will continue. 
Steinem and other women continued to advocate for women in the magazines and continued to fuel the sexual and reproductive revolutions. Nearing the end of the second wave though, feminists began to split into 2 camps, one being sex positive and the other being anti-pornography. The names of these 2 camps are deceiving though because the initial quest of anti-porn feminists was to remove violent depictions of sex from media. The idea was that violence agianst women in porn led to more violence against women in real life. They also brought up the issues surrounding consent in the videos, questioning how one could tell if the woman gave consent and noting that the lack of consent in many of the videos teaches a lack of emphasis on it. The anti-porn movement was soon picked up by conservatives, so it soon became twisted into a movement to remove all porn that is offensive to a viewer. The anti-porn movement became one that was anti-speech. Requests for legislature to govern the spread of any offensive porn were shot down by the supreme court due to the infringement of free speech, but during the time the laws were active, they put sexual educators at risk. We have returned to the place of anti-violent porn, a belief held by many feminists, but now the gonvernace is left up to people stigmatizing the overt objectification and harm of women. 
While the anti-porn movement was a failure due to the infringement on freedom of speech, a different goal of the second wave was the prevention and the punishment of rape. Although most rapes are perpetrated by someone the victim knows, Take Back the Night is a marching initiative to demonstrate against rape. The first march was held in San Fransisco in 1978, and since then marches have been held all over the U.S.. While the marching is helpful toward the cause of preventing and criminalizing rape, as said most perpetrators know their victims personally, so legislative change was also advocated for. This is because, prior to 1976, there was a nearly absolute exception for marital rape in all 50 states. The first state to criminalize the act was Nebraska in 1976. Many conservatives and traditionalists opposed the criminalization of marital rape for sexist reasons that mostly jisted to women being property. There were objections based on old British common law of viewing wives as property, there were objections based on the belief that signing a marriage contract meant giving consent to sex at any time for the rest of time, and conserns about the government getting involved in the personal relationship of marriage. Ultimately, none of the arguments stood the test of logic or time as bu 1993, all states had at least partially criminalized marital rape. Currently, 20 states have an exception to the criminalization for cases in which the spouse was unable to give consent at the time, presumably on the assumption that they would have had they been physically able to. Sexual violence opposition groups are still working to get that changed, or at least put marital rape in the category of domestic abuse, to lessen the burned on the victim and to criminalize a horrific, violent crime. 
Many of the things being fought for now were introduced in the second wave of feminist activism, this includes the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) stating that, Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. This amendment was actually introduced by Alice Paul (a feminist from Britan that founded the Natinal Womens Party in 1913) in 1923. The amendment has been fought for from the time of its introduction to the time of its passage through the senate in 1972, and it continues to be fought for. Hawaii was the first to ratify it and 30 other states followed within a year of the ERA passing, but the required 38 states did not ratify it. Virginia became the last state needed to ratify it in 2020, but now the amendment is facing bureaucratic red tape from a rule that an amendment must be ratified within 7 years of its passage to be added to the constitution. The fight for constitutionally protected equality will continue and as will the fight for equality in all areas of life.
Third Wave Feminism:
The third wave of feminism was characterized by its agressive inclusivity, its focus on female empowerment, and the shaping of the feminist identity.There were two catalysts to the swell of feminist activism and identity in the 1990s. The first was the Riot Grrrl movement that began in 1989 and the second was the live televised hearings for supreme court nominee Clarence Thomas. The hearing began after the Riot Grrrl movement, but Riot Grrrl took more time to gain a reaction from followers. The hearing was so influential to women across the country at the time and now because it featured a former coworker of Thomas coming forward about her experiences with him sexually harrassing her in the workplace. The hearings led to more women coming forward about their experiences with sexual harrassment and abuse and drew awareness to the issues of sexual harrassment in the workplace. The work of exposing sexual harrassment has continued with #MeToo and other such movements. The Riot Grrrl movement also encouraged women to speak about their experiences, but they encouraged women to speak about all their experiences. The Riot Grrrl movement provided safe spaces for women in punk concerts. The movement encouraged women to put together bands or create other art and literature to advocate for themselves. Riot Grrrl was geared toward women and provided them safe spaces, but also advocated for positive femininity and masculinity and provided men with spaces to speak about their experiences too. Riot Grrrl helped to unify feminists under the identity of the female experience and with the ideal of female empowerment.
Anita Hill was an African American woman, a feminist, a professor, and a lawyer. She came from a small town in Oklahoma, and after going to law school, she began her career at a law firm in Washington D.C.. She soon left to joining the U.S. Department of Educations Office for Civil Rights where she worked as a legal advisor to Clarence Thomas, an African American man. Thomas eventually became chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and Hill followed him there to continue as his legal advisor. She left the job one year later though due to unbearable working conditions and accepted a teaching position at Oral Roberts University. In 1986, she moved back to her home state to become a professor at Oklahoma University, and she became the first african american tenured professor at OU in 1989. In 1991, George H.W. Bush nominated Clarence Thomas to the supreme court, so Hill came forward to testify against Thomas due to him sexually assulting her during her time working with him. She recounted situations in which he would sexually assult her during both her time as a legal advisor and when she worked under him at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The reason she left his employment was due to intolerable working conditions he created through his harassment. The televised hearing sparked political polarization between people believing that she was a scorned woman just wanting attention, and those who were appalled at the sexist treatment she received from senators while testifying. Both Hill and Thomas were African Americans, but Thomas referred to the hearing as a high tech lynching to suggest that he was being persicuted because of his race rather than because of his sexist actions against Hill. Thomas was appointed to the supreme court despite her testimony, but Hill brought awareness to the issues of workplace sexual harassment by coming forward about her experience. Hill was later forced to leave OU in 1996 due to calls for her resignation. She had become a feminist inspiration though and many more women came forward about their esperiences with workplace sexual harrassment and their general experiences with sexual harrassment. The populus was polarized over hatred for her, leading to her having to leave OU, and support for her mixed with rage at the sexist treatment she faced when testifying. In a show of support for Hill, women across the country raised thousands of dollars to purchase a full page ad in the New York Times titled, African American Women in Defense of Ourselves.  The page included a manifesto criticizing the treatment of Hill saying, We are particularly outraged by the racist and sexist treatment of Professor Anita Hill, an African American woman who was maligned and castigated for daring to speak publicly of her own experience of sexual abuse, and 1,600 signatures from women across the U.S.. Aside from the event itself proving that it was a spark for the third wave, the political climate resulting from the hearing was referred to as the The Third Wave by Rebecca Walker, daughter of second wave icon, Alice Walker.
Anita Hill also inspired women to fight for more representation in congress as she testified before a committee of all white, all male senators. Many credit the inspiration from Hill for the groundbreaking numbers of women elected into congress in 1992. More women were elected to congress than in any previous decade and the number of women in the house and senate about doubled. The year was deemed The Year of Women. The other entity that is celebrated for the victory for women is the organization EMILYs List. The organization was founded in 1985 by Ellen R. Malcolm and has provided funds to democratic, pro choice women from its founding to now. The organizations name means, Early Money Is Like Yeast, meaning that they raised money early so that other donors would come to their endorsed candidates campaigns and the campaign would rise like dough does with yeast. As time has pressed on, more women have been elected into congress and more women have spoken up about sexual harrassment. Anita Hill paved the way for the #MeToo movement and women advocating for themselves.
Punk music feminism took on the title of the Riot Grrrl movement and started in 1989. The movement took time to become popular, but one of the catalysts to the popularization was the founding of Bikini Kill in Olympia, Washington. Bikini Kill rose to become one of the most popular punk feminist groups along with Bratmobile and Heavens to Betsy. As women started to go to the shows of punk feminists, the movement quickly became widespread and other bands poped up all over the U.S. and later around the world. Riot Grrrl encouraged women to create bands and music or art and literature about their experiences with sexism. Riot Grrrl groups addressed sexism, patriarchy, abuse, sexuality, privlage, and rape. Following in the footsteps of The Guerrilla Girls of 1985 and their public displays of art and music exposing sexism, Riot Grrrl groups and their zines exposed issues women and men faced regarding sexism. Kathleen Hanna, the lead singer of Bikini Kill, was a forerunner of the Riot Grrrl Feminist movement and she created multiple publications for womens empowerment. The Bikini Kill Zine was created after Hanna collaborated with other artists on Riot Grrrl, a small magazine, and by 1991, the Bikini Kill Zine published the Riot Grrrl Manifesto. The manifesto outlined the reasons for the recent surge in musical feminist activism, called for people to accept their feminine traits because femininity is not bad, and preached sisterhood between women. Riot Grrrl is also responsible for many of the feminist phrases we still use. Hanna was known for empowering women at her concerts, saying, Revolution Girl Style Now! or Girls to the front! The Riot Grrrl concerts provided a safe space for women and the calls became symbolic of the call for women to express themselves and come to the forefront of male-dominated fields. The Riot Grrrl movement moved away from the term feminist because they felt the association of past feminists with racist and homophobic beleifs and actions. The term still persists, but is redefined as someone who believes in equality for everyone without dependence on race, sexuality, or gender. Riot Grrrl also fought against notions that femininity is weak or bad and encouraged both men and women to embrace their individuality and not conform to toxic expectations. As the Riot Grrrl movement progressed more bands arose across the country and many of these bands would play their music at pro-choice rallies and would advocate for womens reproductive rights. As the Riot Grrrl movement popularized, terminology was adopted by mainstream bands, like the Spice Girls, which was good to spread the message, but became problematic because the media would mistake pop groups not part of the political feminist Riot Grrrl movement as parts because of the language adoption. Not all of the language lost its meaning, for example, Bikini Kill often said Girl Power and the phrase was soon adopted by mainstream artists, but it is one of the few phrases that kept its meaning and is still used today. As the movement popularized and the media mistook non-political groups for Riot Grrrl groups, several Riot Grrrl groups dissolved, but many members continued to make political music. Bikini Kill released their last album in 1996, but Kathleen Hanna continued to make feminist activist music. The feminism of Riot Grrrl groups resonated with some women in a way that mainstream, cookie cutter feminism didnt because of the focus on being true to yourself and creating safe spaces for everyone. Though the movement ended in the U.S., branches arose in Asia, Europe, Australia, and Latin America. Additionally, though the music went out of style, the movement created the intersectional feminism we have today. 
There were positives and negatives about the third wave. One possitive was the passage of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) in 1994. The act provided additional criminalization of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. Additionally, in 1995, the Office on Violence Against Women (OVW) within the Department of Justice (DOJ) was founded. The VAWA and the OVW provided grounds and funding for more prevention initiatives and more survivor care facilities and programs. The VAWA was reauthorized repeatedly, in 2000, 2005, 20013, and 2021. Its initial passage and repeated reauthorization were spearheaded by groups such as the NOW, the National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence Against Women, the Family Violence Prevention Fund, and many other state and local organizations. The reauthorizations of 2013 and 2021 are notable however because they were elongated by republican/conservative disagreement with some of the proposed added clauses. The proposed clauses were to include more protections for native women, same-sex couples, and sex trafficing victims, and a resolution to eradicate the boyfriend loophole which allows domestic abusers to purchase firearms. One negative of the time was the creation of Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project, for those who were struggling to form loving relationships 1997. This is a negative of the time because after forming a relationship for herself, Alana stopped monitoring the website and it became overrun with misogynistic men who became the online group now referred to as incels. 
-1990s start
-Anita Hill
-An african american woman, feminist, professor, and laywer was one of the sparkers of the third wave of feminism
-Antia Hill began her career as a lawyer at a law firm in Washington D.C.
-She soon left to join the U.S. Department of Educations Office for Civil Rights where she served as a legal advisor to Clarence Thomas
-When Thomas made chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 1982, Hill followed him there 
-She left in 1983 and accepted a teaching position at Oral Roberts University
-In 1986, she moved to her home state to become a professor at Oklahoma University
-She became the first african american tenured professor at OU in 1989
-In 1991, George H.W. Bush nominated Clarence Thomas to the supreme court
-Hill came forward to testify against Thomas in 1991 due to him sexually assulting her during her time working with him 
-She recounted situations in which he would sexually assult her during both her time as a legal advisor and when she worked under him at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
-She claimed the reason that she left the commission in 1983 was due to an intolerable working environment created by Thomas and his harassment
-The televised hearing sparked political polarization between people believing that she was a scorned woman and just wanted attention, and those who were appalled at the sexist treatment she received from senators while testifying
-Both Hill and Thomas were african americans, but Thomas referred to the hearing as a high tech lynching to suggest that he was being persicuted because of his race rather than because of his sexist actions against Hill
-Thomas was appointed to the supreme court despite her testimony, but Hill brought awareness and spotlight to the issues of workplace sexual harassment by coming forward about her experience
-Hill was forced to leave OU in 1996 due to calls for her resignation
-The political climate was referred to as the The Third Wave by Rebecca Walker, daughter of second wave icon, Alice Walker
-Women across the country raised over $50,000 to buy a full page ad in the New York Times titled, African American Women in Defense of Ourselves
-1,600 women signed the manifesto fighting against the treatment of Hill during the hearings, including black feminist historians Barbara Ransby, Deborah King and Elsa Barkley Brown
-We are particularly outraged by the racist and sexist treatment of Professor Anita Hill, an African American woman who was maligned and castigated for daring to speak publicly of her own experience of sexual abuse.
-Many other women spoke out against their experience with sexual harrassment in the workplace following the hearings
-1992 the year of women
-Although Thomas was still appointed to the supreme court, the hearings sparked calls for more female representation in congress and other political leadership positions
-More women were elected to congress than any previous decade 
-27 women were elected to congress
-EMILYs List was founded in 1985 by Ellen R. Malcolm
-One of the organizations responsible for the number of women elected is EMILY's List 
-The organizations name means, Early Money Is Like Yeast, meaning that they raised money early so that other donors would come to their endorsed candidates campaigns and the campaign would rise like dough does with yeast
-EMILYs List continues to endorse pro-choice, democratic women to this day
-Punk music feminism
-Bikini Kill, Bratmobile, and Heavens to Betsy
-Feminist musicians formed girl punk rock bands to create a girl riot in responce to sexism
-They also create various publications for womens empowerment
-Much of their content addressed issues including; sexism, patriarchy, abuse, racism, sexuality and rape
-The Guerrilla Girls set the framework for Riot Grrrl in 1985 with their public displays of art and music exposing sexism
-The women would always hide their faces with gorilla masks
-Kathleen Hanna, the lead singer of Bikini Kill (from Olympia, Washington), was a forerunner of the Riot Grrrl Feminist movement
-The Bikini Kill Zine was created after Hanna collaborated with other artists on Riot Grrrl a small magazine
-By 1991, the Bikini Kill Zine published the Riot Grrrl Manifesto, outlining the reasons for the recent surge in musical feminist activism
-BECAUSE us girls crave records and books and fanzines that speak to US that WE feel included in and can understand in our own ways. // BECAUSE we wanna make it easier for girls to see/hear each other's work so that we can share strategies and criticize-applaud each other. // BECAUSE we don't wanna assimilate to someone else's (boy) standards of what is or isnt. // BECAUSE we are angry at a society that tells us Girl = Dumb, Girl = Bad, Girl = Weak.
-Hanna was known for empowering women at her concerts, saying, Revolution Girl Style Now! or Girls to the front!
-These concerts provided a safe space for women and the calls became symbolic of the call for women to express themselves and come to the forefront of male-dominated fields 
-As the Riot Grrrl movement progressed other bands arose across the country
-Many of these bands would play their music at pro-choice rallies and advocated for womens reproductive rights
-As the Riot Grrrl movement popularized, terminology was adopted by mainstream bands, like the Spice Girls and other bands
-Bikini Kill often said Girl Power and the phrase was soon adopted by mainstream artists
-The media would mistake pop groups not part of the political feminist Riot Grrrl movement as parts because of the language adoption, and groups spoke out against this, but the popularization was already done
-Several Riot Grrrl groups dissolved, but many members continued to make political music
-Bikini Kill released their last album in 1996, but Kathleen Hanna continued to make feminist activist music
-The feminism of Riot Grrrl groups resonated with some women in a way that mainstream, cookie cutter feminism didnt 
-The focus on being true to yourself and creating safe spaces for women drew in many women and though the movement ended in the U.S., branches arose in Asia, Europe, Australia, and Latin America
-What does it mean to be a feminist
-Rejection of the word feminist because it meant exclusivity
-Rejection of the idea that feminine things like clothes are supportive of the patriarchy
-Embarrassment of femininity 
-
-Intersectionality
-In 1989, lawyer and theorist Kimberl Crenshaw developed intersectionality to show how someones various identities (race, class, gender, etc.) overlap to influence how they are treated.
-This theory led to intersectional feminism
-Sex positivity
-Polarization between anti-porn feminists and general feminists
-Violence against women act
-1994
-domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking
-1995 of the Office on Violence Against Women (OVW) within the Department of Justice (DOJ)
-The VAWA was reauthorized in 2000, 2005, and 2013. Its initial passage and repeated reauthorization were spearheaded by groups such as the National Organization for Women, the National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence Against Women, the Family Violence Prevention Fund, and many state and local organizations
-Post modern feminism
-U.S. v. Morrison (2000)
-#MeToo in 2006
-Some believe that the third wave ended with the beginning of the 21st century and the rise of technology, but others believe that the third wave has yet to end
-Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project, for those who were struggling to form loving relationships 1997
-It became overrun with misogynistic men
Timeline
-1989 Kimberl Crenshaw developed intersectionality
-1990 Bikini Kill is founded 
-1990 The Riot Grrrl Movement begins
-1991 The Bikini Kill Zine published the Riot Grrrl Manifesto
-1991 Anita Hill testifies in the supreme court hearings of Clarence Thomas
-1992 The Year of Woman
-1994 Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
-1995 creation of the Office on Violence Against Women in the DOJ
-1997 Alanas Involuntary Celibacy Project for the lonely 
-2000 VAWA is reauthorized
-2005 VAWA is reauthorized
-2006 #MeToo
-2013 VAWA is reauthorized
-2021 VAWA is reauthorized
https://www.britannica.com/biography/Anita-Hill
https://www.womenshistory.org/exhibits/feminism-third-wave
https://library.law.howard.edu/civilrightshistory/women/intersectionality
https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1992/11/feminists-against-the-first-amendment/305051/
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/joe-biden-was-in-charge-of-the-anita-hill-hearing-even-he-says-it-wasnt-fair/2019/04/26/a9a6f384-6500-11e9-82ba-fcfeff232e8f_story.html
https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2018/09/18/anita-hill-1991-questioned-sexual-harassment-senate-orig-js.cnn
https://fortune.com/longform/oral-history-year-of-the-woman-2018-midterm-elections/
https://www.emilyslist.org/pages/entry/our-history
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_of_the_Woman
https://artsandculture.google.com/asset/african-american-women-in-defense-of-ourselves-elsa-barkley-brown/AAF7Js3zn1rVjA
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L0oeqAQ1qE8 audio
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AXqQ1rEfdJA video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S8popa7M4tI
https://www.thedailybeast.com/how-the-riot-grrrl-movement-sold-the-world-on-girl-power
https://diymag.com/2019/02/22/bikini-kill-add-second-brixton-academy-date
https://pitchfork.com/artists/6420-heavens-to-betsy/
https://groknation.com/culture/riot-grrrl-bratmobile-podcast/
https://www.theparisreview.org/blog/2013/07/30/grrrl-collected/
https://rosie.org.au/blog/question-riot-grrrl/	
https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/04/us/violence-against-women-act-reauthorization.html
https://www.c-span.org/video/?22097-1/clarence-thomas-confirmation-hearing
https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4999257/user-clip-representative-pennsylvania-questioning-hillFourth Wave Feminism:
It is unclear when the third wave ended and when the fourth wave began, some believe that the tip was in 2000, others believe that it happened in 2012. In either case, the change occurred with the rise of social media and the benefits and dangers that it posed and poses. The identity of a feminist as one who believe in equality for all people and one who acknowleges and respects the rights of other minorities and minority women continued to develop well into the 2000s and continues to develop today. With the rise of social media sites like facebook, twitter, instagram, and more, the world became closer than ever before. This resulted in feminists from all around the world being able to connect, share, and empower themselves and each other. 
The 2000s saw a change in fashion and a rise in opposition to unrealistic body standards and the expectation of women to be jealous and hateful of each other. The 2004 movie Mean Girls was a show of the pressure women face to be beautiful and the expectation of them to be cruel to each other and was a satire on the practices caused by the internalized sexism. The film featured Lindsey Lohan and followed the story of a teen girl named Kady as she navigated highschool after being homeschooled in Africa her whole life. The movie criticized the bullying that occurs in schools based on weight, perceived sexual activity, conventional beauty, academic achevement, etc. and ended with a call for unification of women. The empowering message of women needing to lift each other up rather than tear each other down resonated with teens and adults and helped lead to the recognition of internalized sexism causing arbitrary, harmful divides between women. The movie became an iconic piece of culture for teens of 2004 and onward, but the main emulations of aspects of the movie in following media were the three popular, mean girls rather than the messages of sisterhood and inner beauty. The reaction from audiences showed and shows the value that the current generations put on sisterhood and women supporting women (a phrase that would become extremely popular among feminists online), but the following media imitating the mean girls shows the continued belief that jokes at the expense of women and their empowerment are funny and sell. 
An aspect of fourth wave feminism is also the understanding of internalized sexism among women and the effort to remove those effects. One example that has been fought against since the second wave is toxic femininity, the belief that women should only carry perceived feminine traits. Toxic femininity is the expectation that women are, or should be, submissive, quiet, calm, agreeable, accommodating, etc.; all traits that build the expectation and build on the expectation that women are less and can only be less than men. In response to these projected expectations, women have flooded social media outlets with messages of empowerment for other women, telling them that they are allowed to take space for their existence. The expectations of toxic femininity have been used to villainize powerful women by criticizing them for speaking like men are expected. An example of this were ads villainizing Hillary Clinton as a shrill, power hungry woman by showing clips of her discussing political issues. The understanding of the internalization of these expectations is also pivotal to the fourth wave. Women are far more encouraged to advocate for themselves than ever before and to notice when they feel they are taking too much space because of something said to them based on their sex, then continue to take that space. This empowerment of women to advocate what they want and need has received much backlash from traditional conservatives who claim that the women are not filling their proper roles, and that women are selfish for expressing themselves. These claims tie back to the stereotype created in 1968 of the angry, man-hating feminist because a common reaction to women countering their male counterparts in respectful ways spark comments about the woman just hating all men. 
On the other side of the spectrum of toxic standards of women, there is the Not Like Other Girls trend, or more popularly recognized as the Pick Me Girl trend. The Pick Me Girl trend refers to girls who pretend to, or over exaggerate their enjoyment of typically male associated activities to seem different from other girls (referring to those who are more feminine). This trend is inherently sexist as it perpetuates the falsity that femininity is bad, and contributes to the hate culture between women by making an us and a them (pick me girls and the other girls they are not like). Pick me girls first popularized on twitter in 2016, but the term is much more widely recognized now with trends making fun of pick me girls and the sexist beliefs that create them. Pick me girls will make shows of liking things like video games, cars, fighting, and other things men are supposed to like in an attempt to gain the attention and approval of men by being like them. Pick me girls may also bully other girls for doing feminine things like wearing makeup and dresses, and have been know to be defensive of sexual assaulters. The pick me girl follows the trend of the girl who is not like other girls. This not like other girls girl has been popularized in the media and is often found when looking at book heroines, sometimes it is even explicitly stated in the media that the girl is not like other girls. This carries with it the belief that being like other girls is a bad thing and copies the sexist belief that femininity is akin to weakness and failure. In response to the pick me girls and the trend of not like other girl protagonists in media, feminists on social media have made many videos making fun of the exagerated masculinity of pick me girls and started the I Am Like Other Girls trend. The videos poking fun at pick me girls are harmful to the community, but many people find them funny so they remain popular. Expecting women to be supportive of each other and helpful of each other is contradicted by making fun of women who have internalized sexism, and there is still the need for the questioning of the pick me girl. Videos now will show positive reactions to feminine women and negative reactions to pick me girls to show that being feminine is a good thing and to show that being a pick me girl is not always received well. Along with the more positive responses is the I Am Like Other Girls trend where girls will say how they are like other girls and list the positive attributes of women. In either case of internalized sexism being reacted to, it is clear that the connections provided by social media have led to many more trends and movements than ever before because of the immediate ability to react to content. 
The feminist movements on social media have been beneficial to womens and mens mental health because of their gender inclusive targeting. One of the most beneficial is the avid opposition of feminists to unrealistic body standards for both men and women. While the issues of male eating disorders and body image issues have yet to be fully addressed, the feminist body positivity movement has helped men and women. A trend on tiktok and instagram in recent years has been Eat A Meal With Me, a trend in which influencers and others film themselves eating and having a mock conversation with the person watching the video. The trend was started to help people with eating disorders accept themselves and not feel lonely when eating as many prefer to eat without other people around. The trend also showed people with bodies that many find beautiful eating to show that eating is a healthy thing. There are also posts all over social media that are check-up type of content that tells the watcher or reader to check themselves for discomforts like dehydration, or hunger, or poor posture and reminds them to take care of themselves. 
There has also been an increase in anti-sexual assault movements online and off. One of the most notable instances of a show of support for womens rights was the Womens March on Washington on January 21st, 2017, the day after Trumps inauguration. The march was to protest Trump and show the support of womens rights in America. Many women were scared for their rights when Trump, an overtly sexist and proven sexual assulter (charges of pedophilia and rape are still pending), took office. Over 4.6 million people attended various women's marches throughout the U.S. on the date of the Womens March. The demonstrations showed widespread support for women and for the continuation of protections for womens rights and gained worldwide recognition. The march also occurred in the same year that the #MeToo Movement is said to have truly blown up and mainstreamed the media. The movement was begun in 2006 and became more and more popular on social media as time went on, but the movement truly went viral when famous women of Hollywood came forward with sexual assault alegations against music producer Jeffrey Epstien. The women sparked widespread recognition of the sexual harrassment and assault of women in the workplace and many women came forward with allegations. As #MeToo gained more traction, so did the attempts at discreditation of the allegations and personal attacks on the women who were victimized. Many accused the women of being scorned and in search of attention. Especially with the case of Brock Turner the year before in 2016, the environment fostered the Not All Men opposition movement to #MeToo. The movement was by men who were worried about being falsely accused of sexual assult for their actions, so they began the trend of disbelieving women who reported sexual assult, with the tagline, Not All Men. Anti-feminists used this phrase to invalidate the experience of sexual assault of the 1 in 3 women who experienced it. They also used not all men with the angry, man-hating stereotype of feminists to frame survivors of sexual abuse and harassment as liars who just wanted to ruin the reputations of the men they were assulted by. The online feminsit movement responded to not all men with the Not All Men But All Women movement. The movement responded to the men attempting to discredit women by saying that not all men were assaulters with the truth of all women having to live in constant anxiety of the men that are sexual assulters. The movement included, not all men; but all women are scared to walk alone at night, and not all men; but all women keep one earbud out to listen for following footsteps. The movement was effective in its acknowledgment of not all men being sexual assulters, and in it illustration of the fact that because some are, all women must be on alert. 
In 2018 Times Up, an initiative fighting rape culture, officially began. Rape culture is a culture in which instances of sexual assult are normalized and widly accepted as something that is not a problem or something to be joked about. The Times Up initiative has criticized sexual assault jokes and had called for all men to call out those they see perpetuating rape culture. The initiative is also critical of men who bring up men getting raped only as a reaction to dampen the experiences of women. The anti-rape movement is not gendered, nor does it deny the experiences of men, but men opposing the movement will tend to bring up men getting raped only when women come forward about their experiences. The anti-rape movement and Times Up both call for social reform to destigmatize coming forward about experiences with sexual assult and to stigmatize the jokes and criticism of surviors who speak up. The movement also calls for the end of victim blaming. The end of comments such as, what were you wearing?, were you drunk?, did you say no?, did you try to get them to stop?, youll ruin their life, etc.. The social media of the anti-rape movement has also been growing as more aritists create art to inform people and art to protest rape and rape cultutre. The growth of anti-rape culture and female empowerment and assault survivor empowerment is helping to create a safer place for everyone. 
What has not created a safer space for everyone is the anonymity of the internet allowing people to virtually harass and threaten others. Two of the best known examples of the dangers caused by extremist sexist groups on the internet are GamerGate and the violence that has been directly linked to the incel community. 
The incel community was actually begun by a woman, though she did not intend for it to turn into the violent, misogynistic group that it is today. A woman named Alana started Alanas Involuntarily Celebate Project, an online chat community for lonely men and women in 1997 who were having trouble getting into relationships. The site began as a place where men and women could give each other dating advice and encouragement about themselves. But, after Alana got into a relationship herself, she stopped monitoring the site. The server soon populated with misogynistic men who blame women for their misfortunes in dating. The community eventually moved to 4chan upon its opening and then spread to nearly all social media sites. They were then given the nickname incels. Incels blame women they refer to as Stacys for their inability to find a relationship, and blame women for being shallow or difficult. They also express anger toward men who can get into relationships, those they call Chads because of their jealousy. They perpetuate the stereotype that Chads are singularly conventionally beautiful men and are only picked for their outer appearance. Incels are also perpetrators of the nice guys finish last idea. They think of themselves as nice guys and the fact that women do not want to be with them is infuriating to them. The group thrives off a sense of entitlement to women and womens attention, effectively treating women as property. The servers of incels are not welcoming to any women and will ban them if found. One of the first and most explicit linkers of the incel community and violence was the Isla Vista rampage by an active member of the incel community. The link was easily established as the man had frequented misogynistic online communities before the murders, had posted videos about his hatred for women, and had posted repeatedly about his intent to get revenge for the injustice of not having women flock to him. The most important and obvious link though, was a memoir that he posted just before his homicidal rampage that contained his reasons for hating women and his meticulous planning of the rampage to get revenge. He posted the memoir, stabbed his 3 male roommates over 150 times in total in their shared apartment, then drove into a crowd of people and opened fire on them. After killing 3 more people with gunfire for a total of 6 deaths and injuring many more, and a police shootout, he killed himself. The act was praised on incel forums and comments were made asking when the next one would be and expressing hope for a more deadly rampage next time. This happened again in 2019 when a social media influencer named Bianca Devins was murdered by her ex-boyfriend. The murderer posted photos of the influencers corpse on discord and they quickly spread through social media. He also took a video of him killing her but that was not posted. Incels and other extremist groups then sent the images to the influencers family along with threats and claims that she deserved what happened to her. The instances have continued and one can find threatening comments on feminist posts and general posts. Some women have spoken out about harassment and threats on social media, but little has been done to help them. With the murder of Bianca, the family has petitioned for a federal law that holds companies accountable for the damaging and disturbing images that are posted to their sites. Although some sites have added more security and content control precautions, many continue to put the burden of protecting people from disturbing media on the viewer. The increase in communication channels has also created places for violent individuals to egg each other on and the anonymity has allowed people to openly praise instances of violence toward women. Moving forward, media companies must place more restrictions on who is allowed on their sites and must improve their content vetting programs. 
There was also the GamerGate incident that went from 2012 to 2014 when the group of harassers was adopted into the alt-right. The climate exposed in GamerGate began long before 2012. The video gaming industry has been historically advertised toward men and the gaming community is notoriously sexist and exclusive of women gamers. In 2012 though, feminist media critic Anita Sarkeesian shifted her critique from movies onto games as well. She received intense backlash and GamerGate began with the flood of doxxing efforts (efforts to expose her personal information such as her home address), and bomb, rape, and murder threats. One of her speeches at a college had to be canceled due to bomb and shooting threats from the online gamer community. GamerGate also involved a female game developer who broke up with her boyfriend at the time for another man. In response to the breakup, her boyfriend doxxed her and claimed that she had cheated on him during their relationship. She, like Sarkeesian, got a storm of threats and hatred from the gaming community. The incident did not end, rather morphed when the harassing gamer community was absorbed into the alt-right. So, while the feminist community is becoming more widespread, the anti-feminist groups are becoming far more polarized than ever. I also feel it is important to note that the number of intimate partner homicides has been increasing since 2013. While this may only be correlated with the online harassment of women and the encouragement from groups to perpetuate violence against women, I feel it is an important thing to note when considering the real world violence caused by online hatred. 
With Trump encouraging outward bigotry and with the anonymity of the internet allowing people to dehumanize others and avoid consequences through claims of joking or trolling, the world continues to be a dangerous place for women. However, with the connections that social media provides, the feminist movement has mobilized on a scale never seen before. Feminism will continue to grow and activism may ebb at some point soon, or it will be perpetual on social media. We cannot predict the future, but we can learn from the past, and what the past has taught us about feminism is that it will continue to become more progressive, inclusive, and prevelent. It has also taught us that the fostering of internet extremism leads to violence and the allowance of media companies to not properly moderate their forums must end to prevent further sexual injustice.
-2013 expansion of the act to include American Indians and same-sex couples and increased protection for victims of sex trafficking
-VAWA is bad because its only for women - for men too
-2019 close of the boyfriend loophole is opposed by republicans
-Reauthorized in 2021
-Sex discrimination is banned and organizations can only turn down males if they are singularly female for a reason pertaining to the function of their organization
-#MeToo in 2006
-GamerGate campaign 2014 to 2015 
-Companies regulations on harassment put the burden on the victim to block the harassers 
-Youtube 2019 ban on white supremacist content
-In 2012, male backlash against feminist media critic Anita Sarkeesian
-the 2014 Santa Barbara mass shooters misogynistic online manifesto and history of participation in deeply misogynistic online spaces
-2016 Brock Turner Rapes an Unconcious Girl
-The 2019 murder of 17-year-old Bianca Devins, a well-known Instagram user
-incels
-Mens rights
-Not all men
-January 21, 2017 the day after Trumps inauguration, women held a march on washington along with demonstrations all over the country, around 4.6 million people attended the various demonstrations, making the womens march one of the largest single-day demonstrations in U.S. history
-The VAWA was reauthorized in 2000, 2005, and 2013. Its initial passage and repeated reauthorization were spearheaded by groups such as the National Organization for Women, the National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence Against Women, the Family Violence Prevention Fund, and many state and local organizations
-Harvey Weinstien 2017
-Intersectionality
-Female empowerment
-Positive femininity
-Positive masculinity
-Online #MeToo 2017
-Reddit closed down the most prominent incel chain in 2017
-Sexual justice
-Mean girls 2004
-Youtube 2005
-Twitter 2006
-Facebook 2004
-Instagram 2010
-Tiktok 2016
-4chan 2003
-Reddit 2005
-Times up 2018
Timeline:
-2000 VAWA is reauthorized
-2003 4Chan
-2004 Mean Girls
-2005 YouTube
-2005 Reddit
-2005 VAWA is reauthorized
-2006 #MeToo
-2006 Twitter
-2007 Iphones
-2010 Instagram
-2012 Gamers harass Anita Sarkeesian with death, bomb, and rape threats
-2013 VAWA is reauthorized
-2014 GamerGate
-2016 TikTok
-2017 Harvey Weinstein allegations
-2017 Reddit closed one of the largest incel chains
-2018 Times Up
-2021 VAWA is reauthorized
https://msmagazine.com/2021/10/13/can-your-husband-rape-you-california-law-spousal-rape-exemption/
https://www.britannica.com/topic/feminism/The-fourth-wave-of-feminism
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fourth-wave_feminism
https://www.britannica.com/event/Violence-Against-Women-Act
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Violence_Against_Women_Act
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-45284455
https://www.vox.com/the-highlight/2019/4/16/18287446/incel-definition-reddit
https://www.ted.com/talks/tea_baines_noam_hazut_time_s_up_let_s_end_rape_culture
https://www.cbsnews.com/news/bianca-devins-murder-violent-images-psychological-terrorism-48-hours/
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2021/07/23/instagram-sensitive-content-limit/
https://www.popsci.com/technology/instagram-sensitive-content-control/#:~:text=Instagram%2C%20which%20Facebook%20purchased%20in,before%20users%20could%20view%20them.
https://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-santa-barbara-isla-vista-rampage-investigation-20150219-story.html
https://thermtide.com/14979/popular/how-the-pick-me-girl-is-rooted-in-misogyny/#:~:text=The%20term%20%E2%80%9Cpick%20me%E2%80%9D%20and,of%20%E2%80%9Cpick%20me%E2%80%9D%20girls.
https://www.vox.com/identities/2018/8/9/17670322/brock-turner-stanford-judge-persky-sexual-assault
https://www.kelownanow.com/news/news/Lifestyle/14/10/15/Feminist_Video_Game_Critic_Receives_Death_Threats
https://www.motherjones.com/media/2015/01/anita-sarkeesian-feminist-trolls-twitter/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gFj1jhjaT0U
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uaGM5SRStQo
https://sayfty.com/whats-rape-culture-affect-womens-safety/
https://www.veto.be/artikel/what-is-rape-culture
http://www.mterc.org/
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/21/us/womens-march.html
https://everytownresearch.org/report/guns-and-violence-against-women-americas-uniquely-lethal-intimate-partner-violence-problem/
https://www.pinterest.com/pin/72690981474272588/
https://www.reddit.com/r/WholesomeComics/comments/fggmaz/like_other_girls_comic_by_julie_hang/
https://www.tiktok.com/@poetry.by.el/video/7047589809434447109?is_copy_url=1&is_from_webapp=v1&q=but%20all%20women&t=1643357634595
African American Women in Defense of Ourselves - Elsa Barkley Brown, Debra King, and Barbara Ransby - Google Arts & Culture. Google, Google, https://artsandculture.google.com/asset/african-american-women-in-defense-of-ourselves-elsa-barkley-brown/AAF7Js3zn1rVjA.
Anita Hill. Encyclopdia Britannica, Encyclopdia Britannica, Inc., https://www.britannica.com/biography/Anita-Hill.
Baker, Carrie N., et al. California Law Eliminates Spousal Rape Exemption-but Patriarchy Still Dies Hard. Ms. Magazine, 13 Oct. 2021, https://msmagazine.com/2021/10/13/can-your-husband-rape-you-california-law-spousal-rape-exemption/.
Beauchamp, Zack. Our Incel Problem. Vox, Vox, 16 Apr. 2019, https://www.vox.com/the-highlight/2019/4/16/18287446/incel-definition-reddit.
Before #Metoo, There Was Riot Grrrl and Bratmobile. Grok Nation, 6 Dec. 2018, https://groknation.com/culture/riot-grrrl-bratmobile-podcast/.
Bikini Kill "Rebel Girl" Live (1996) - Youtube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AXqQ1rEfdJA.
Body Positivity & Self Love Tiktoks *Part 10* | Tiktok Compilation. YouTube, YouTube, 5 Oct. 2020, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gFj1jhjaT0U.
A Brief History of Civil Rights in the United States: Feminism and Intersectionality. HUSL Library, https://library.law.howard.edu/civilrightshistory/women/intersectionality.
Charlotte Hu | Updated Jul 30, et al. Instagram Now Lets You Manage 'Sensitive Content.' Here's How to Use It. Popular Science, 30 July 2021, https://www.popsci.com/technology/instagram-sensitive-content-control/#:~:text=Instagram%2C%20which%20Facebook%20purchased%20in,before%20users%20could%20view%20them.
Clarence Thomas Second Confirmation Hearing. C, https://www.c-span.org/video/?22097-1%2Fclarence-thomas-confirmation-hearing.
Cohen, Rebecca. Here Are the 157 Hate Tweets a Feminist Faced in One Week. Mother Jones, 29 Jan. 2015, https://www.motherjones.com/media/2015/01/anita-sarkeesian-feminist-trolls-twitter/.
Darms, Lisa. Grrrl, Collected. The Paris Review, 30 July 2013, https://www.theparisreview.org/blog/2013/07/30/grrrl-collected/.
Diy. Bikini Kill Add Second Brixton Academy Date. DIY, DIY, 27 Dec. 2021, https://diymag.com/2019/02/22/bikini-kill-add-second-brixton-academy-date.
Ellie on TikTok. TikTok, https://www.tiktok.com/@poetry.by.el/video/7047589809434447109?is_copy_url=1&is_from_webapp=v1&q=but+all+women&t=1643357634595.
Elliot Rodger Meticulously Planned Isla Vista Rampage, Report Says. Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Times, 19 Feb. 2015, https://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-santa-barbara-isla-vista-rampage-investigation-20150219-story.html.
Emmy Meli - I Am Woman (Official Performance Video). YouTube, YouTube, 20 Jan. 2022, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uaGM5SRStQo.
Encyclopdia Britannica, Encyclopdia Britannica, Inc., https://www.britannica.com/explore/100women/rise-of-feminism.
Engagement, The Center for Civic. Black Radical Feminisms & the Combahee River Collective with Alaya Carr. Bard CCE, https://cce.bard.edu/events/black-radical-feminisms-the-combahee-river-collective-with-alaya-carr.
England, Deborah C. The History of Marital Rape Laws. Www.criminaldefenselawyer.com, Nolo, 27 Mar. 2015, https://www.criminaldefenselawyer.com/resources/criminal-defense/crime-penalties/marital-rape.htm.
Equal Rights Amendment in 2021. MyLO, 4 Mar. 2021, https://my.lwv.org/south-carolina/hilton-head-island-bluffton-area/article/equal-rights-amendment-2021.
Equal Rights Amendment Passed by Congress. History.com, A&E Television Networks, 9 Feb. 2010, https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/equal-rights-amendment-passed-by-congress#:~:text=On%20March%2022%2C%201972%2C%20the,on%20the%20basis%20of%20sex.
Feminism: The Second Wave. National Women's History Museum, 18 June 2020, https://www.womenshistory.org/exhibits/feminism-second-wave.
Feminism: The Third Wave. National Women's History Museum, 23 June 2020, https://www.womenshistory.org/exhibits/feminism-third-wave.
Feminism: The Third Wave. National Women's History Museum, 23 June 2020, https://www.womenshistory.org/exhibits/feminism-third-wave.
Ferrufino, Marcela. How the Pick Me Girl Is Rooted in Misogyny. The Tide, https://thermtide.com/14979/popular/how-the-pick-me-girl-is-rooted-in-misogyny/#:~:text=The%20term%20%E2%80%9Cpick%20me%E2%80%9D%20and,of%20%E2%80%9Cpick%20me%E2%80%9D%20girls.
The Fight for Reproductive Rights. Ushistory.org, Independence Hall Association, https://www.ushistory.org/us/57b.asp.
First-Wave Feminism. Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 8 Jan. 2022, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-wave_feminism.
Flagler, Brooke, and Brooke Flagler. The Feminist Poetry Movement, 13 Dec. 2019, https://sites.williams.edu/engl113-f18/flagler/a-brief-history-of-rape-law/.
Flagler, Brooke, and Brooke Flagler. The Feminist Poetry Movement, 13 Dec. 2019, https://sites.williams.edu/engl113-f18/flagler/a-brief-history-of-rape-law/.
The Fourth Wave of Feminism. Encyclopdia Britannica, Encyclopdia Britannica, Inc., https://www.britannica.com/topic/feminism/The-fourth-wave-of-feminism.
Fourth-Wave Feminism. Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 15 Jan. 2022, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fourth-wave_feminism.
Grady, Constance. The Waves of Feminism, and Why People Keep Fighting over Them, Explained. Vox, Vox, 20 Mar. 2018, https://www.vox.com/2018/3/20/16955588/feminism-waves-explained-first-second-third-fourth.
Grady, Constance. The Waves of Feminism, and Why People Keep Fighting over Them, Explained. Vox, Vox, 20 Mar. 2018, https://www.vox.com/2018/3/20/16955588/feminism-waves-explained-first-second-third-fourth.
Gray, Arielle. This Boston Collective Laid the Groundwork for Intersectional Black Feminism. WBUR News, WBUR, 10 June 2019, https://www.wbur.org/news/2019/06/10/boston-combahee-river-collective-intersectional-black-feminism.
Guns and Violence against Women: America's Uniquely Lethal Intimate Partner Violence Problem. Everytown Research & Policy, 27 Jan. 2022, https://everytownresearch.org/report/guns-and-violence-against-women-americas-uniquely-lethal-intimate-partner-violence-problem/.
Hartocollis, Anemona, and Yamiche Alcindor. Women's March Highlights as Huge Crowds Protest Trump: 'We're Not Going Away'. The New York Times, The New York Times, 21 Jan. 2017, https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/21/us/womens-march.html.
Heavens to Betsy- White Girl - Youtube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S8popa7M4tI.
Hinchliffe, Emma, et al. 2018 Is the Second 'Year of the Woman:' an Oral History of the Women Who Gave Rise to the First. Fortune, Fortune, 7 June 2021, https://fortune.com/longform/oral-history-year-of-the-woman-2018-midterm-elections/.
History. Equal Rights Amendment, https://www.equalrightsamendment.org/history.
Hunter, Tatum. Instagram Is Giving You More Control over 'Sensitive Content.' Here's How to Turn It off - or Dial It up. The Washington Post, WP Company, 23 July 2021, https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2021/07/23/instagram-sensitive-content-limit/.
Kaminer, Wendy. Feminists against the First Amendment. The Atlantic, Atlantic Media Company, 1 Nov. 1992, https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1992/11/feminists-against-the-first-amendment/305051/.
Kathryn. What's Rape Culture? How Does It Affect Women's Safety? Sayfty, 2 Oct. 2017, https://sayfty.com/whats-rape-culture-affect-womens-safety/.
KelownaNow. Feminist Video Game Critic Receives Death Threats. KelownaNow, https://www.kelownanow.com/news/news/Lifestyle/14/10/15/Feminist_Video_Game_Critic_Receives_Death_Threats.
Lopez, German. Brock Turner Loses Appeal of Sexual Assault Conviction. Vox, Vox, 9 Aug. 2018, https://www.vox.com/identities/2018/8/9/17670322/brock-turner-stanford-judge-persky-sexual-assault.
March to End Rape Culture. March to End Rape Culture, http://www.mterc.org/.
Miss America Protest. Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 2 Nov. 2021, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miss_America_protest.
Moreland, by: Quinn, et al. Heavens to Betsy. Pitchfork, https://pitchfork.com/artists/6420-heavens-to-betsy/.
Napikoski, Linda. Highlights of the Women's Rights Movement of the 1970s. ThoughtCo, ThoughtCo, 8 Aug. 2019, https://www.thoughtco.com/1970s-feminism-timeline-3528911.
Napikoski, Linda. What Were the Goals of 1960s/1970s Feminism? ThoughtCo, ThoughtCo, 7 Feb. 2021, https://www.thoughtco.com/goals-of-the-feminist-movement-3528961.
Napikoski, Linda. Why the Women's Strike for Equality in 1970 Was Important. ThoughtCo, ThoughtCo, 25 Feb. 2019, https://www.thoughtco.com/the-womens-strike-for-equality-3528989.
Never Apologize for the Space You Take up 8x8 Print: Body Positivity Art, Body Positive Quotes, Self Love Quotes. Pinterest, https://www.pinterest.com/pin/72690981474272588/.
Our History. Our History, https://www.emilyslist.org/pages/entry/our-history.
Person. What Birth Control Was like in Every Decade. Redbook, Redbook, 13 Oct. 2017, https://www.redbookmag.com/body/pregnancy-fertility/g4283/what-birth-control-was-like-in-every-decade/.
Petition for Woman Suffrage from Frederick Douglass Jr. and Other Residents of the District of Columbia. DocsTeach, 1 Jan. 1878, https://www.docsteach.org/documents/document/douglass-petition-woman-suffrage.
The Pill and the Sexual Revolution. PBS, Public Broadcasting Service, https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/features/pill-and-sexual-revolution/.
Question: What Is Riot Grrrl? Rosie, 23 Nov. 2018, https://rosie.org.au/blog/question-riot-grrrl/.
R/Wholesomecomics - like Other Girls! Comic by Julie Hang. Reddit, https://www.reddit.com/r/WholesomeComics/comments/fggmaz/like_other_girls_comic_by_julie_hang/.
Ratification by State. Equal Rights Amendment, https://www.equalrightsamendment.org/era-ratification-map.
Rebel Girl - Youtube Music. https://music.youtube.com/watch?v=L0oeqAQ1qE8.
The Revival of Feminism. Click - The Revival of Feminism - The Feminist Movement, Robin Morgan Feminist, Gloria Steinem Feminist, National Organization for Women, NOW, https://www.cliohistory.org/click/politics-social/revival.
Robinson, Chauncey K. Netflix Feminists: Film on 1970s Women's Movement Shows Work Still to Do. People's World, 18 Oct. 2018, https://peoplesworld.org/article/netflix-feminists-film-on-1970s-womens-movement-shows-work-still-to-do/.
Rueb, Emily S., and Niraj Chokshi. The Violence against Women Act Is Turning 25. Here's How It Has Ignited Debate. The New York Times, The New York Times, 5 Apr. 2019, https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/04/us/violence-against-women-act-reauthorization.html.
Second-Wave Feminism. Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 18 Jan. 2022, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second-wave_feminism.
Take Back the Night March. Take Back the Night March - The MSU Women's Center | Montana State University, https://www.montana.edu/women/takebackmarch.html#:~:text=The%20first%20Take%20Back%20the%20Night%20March%20in%20the%20US,and%20taking%20on%20many%20forms.
Taylor, Jim. The Woman Who Founded the 'Incel' Movement. BBC News, BBC, 29 Aug. 2018, https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-45284455.
Ta Baines, Noam Hazut. Time's up: Let's End Rape Culture. Ta Baines, Noam Hazut: Time's Up: Let's End Rape Culture | TED Talk, https://www.ted.com/talks/tea_baines_noam_hazut_time_s_up_let_s_end_rape_culture.
United States Constitution. Constitutional Law Reporter, https://constitutionallawreporter.com/amendment-19/.
Universal Suffrage. National Archives and Records Administration, National Archives and Records Administration, https://www.archives.gov/legislative/features/suffrage.
User Clip: Representative of Pennsylvania Questioning Hill. C, https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4999257%2Fuser-clip-representative-pennsylvania-questioning-hill.
Viebeck, Elise. Joe Biden Was in Charge of the Anita Hill Hearing. Even He Says It Wasn't Fair. The Washington Post, WP Company, 30 Apr. 2019, https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/joe-biden-was-in-charge-of-the-anita-hill-hearing-even-he-says-it-wasnt-fair/2019/04/26/a9a6f384-6500-11e9-82ba-fcfeff232e8f_story.html.
Violence against Women Act. Encyclopdia Britannica, Encyclopdia Britannica, Inc., https://www.britannica.com/event/Violence-Against-Women-Act.
Violence against Women Act. Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 13 Dec. 2021, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Violence_Against_Women_Act.
Violent Images Sent to Victim's Family a Form of Psychological Terrorism," Expert Says. CBS News, CBS Interactive, https://www.cbsnews.com/news/bianca-devins-murder-violent-images-psychological-terrorism-48-hours/.
Watch How Senators Grilled Anita Hill in 1991 - CNN Video. CNN, Cable News Network, 18 Sept. 2018, https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2018/09/18/anita-hill-1991-questioned-sexual-harassment-senate-orig-js.cnn.
What Is Rape Culture? Veto.be, https://www.veto.be/artikel/what-is-rape-culture.
Women's Liberation Center. NYC LGBT Historic Sites Project, https://www.nyclgbtsites.org/site/womens-liberation-center/.
The Women's Rights Movement, 18481917: US House of Representatives: History, Art & Archives. The Women's Rights Movement, 1848-1917 | US House of Representatives: History, Art & Archives, https://history.house.gov/Exhibitions-and-Publications/WIC/Historical-Essays/No-Lady/Womens-Rights/.
Womens Suffrage in the U.S. by State - Rutgers University. Rutgers University, Rutgers University, https://tag.rutgers.edu/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/suffrage-by-state.pdf.
Writes, Sal. A Brief History of the First Wave of Feminism. Medium, Lessons from History, 10 Nov. 2020, https://medium.com/lessons-from-history/a-brief-history-of-the-first-wave-of-feminism-59d58e52af23.
Yarrow, Allison. How the Riot Grrrl Movement Sold the World on Girl Power. The Daily Beast, The Daily Beast Company, 7 July 2018, https://www.thedailybeast.com/how-the-riot-grrrl-movement-sold-the-world-on-girl-power.
Year of the Woman. Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 1 Oct. 2020, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_of_the_Woman.
Youtu.be. https://youtu.be/leSOcUcqWqU.
{{Meta.pagetitle}}. {{Meta.siteName}}, https://www.oyez.org/cases/1964/496.
{{Meta.pagetitle}}. {{Meta.siteName}}, https://www.oyez.org/cases/1971/70-17.
Any Woman Who Is Now or May Hereafter Be Married . . .". National Archives and Records Administration, National Archives and Records Administration, https://www.archives.gov/publications/prologue/1998/summer/women-and-naturalization-1.html. ?Zo Marie Predmore 
Ethics & Citizenship 
5 September 2021 
Prompt: Based on what you just read, and what you have seen in the news, what do you think the next 4 years will contain in terms of nationalism and the debate over the future of the country? 
Nationalism is the devotion to ones country founded upon a disdain of other countries. Depending on who we see in office in the years to come, and what beliefs that person holds, we may see increases or decreases in nationalism. Perhaps the most impactful ideal a president can hold is a true understanding of the nations history; both our strengths and our many shortcomings. What nationalism fails to understand is that scrutiny of a countrys past and present actions is what helps the country to correct itself, and ignoring - even cutting out - the worst parts of American history does more harm than help.When serious historians abandon the study of the nation, when scholars stop trying to write a common history for the people, nationalism doesnt die. Instead, it eats liberalism (20). If, in the future, we can elect a president who understands this, we, as a country, can work to disassemble the impact and existence of nationalism.  
But the United States, rebuked by all those left out in its vision of a nation, began battling that contradiction early on, and has never stopped. In the United States, the nation is that battle (42). 
In order to predict the future of that battle in this country, it is necessary to examine the past and present. Currently, one of the biggest issues concerning nationalism is refugees from Afghanistan. Nationalism is inherently resentful of immigration because it involves accepting foreigners as part of the country. President Biden seems willing to allow Afghan refugees into the country and ... pledged that all evacuated Afghan allies will be given a home in the United States.. (New York Times). However, there are still some, mainly right-wing conservatives given media platforms, who are hostile to the idea of welcoming refugees, much like former president Trump. 
Bidens immigration policy is more accepting than his predecessors, and does make strides in dismantling the nationalist sentiments imposed by Trump. If future presidents take a similar approach to Biden, we may see nationalism decrease even more.   
However, history, being the pendulum it is, may swing in an opposite direction for the 2024 election. If Donald Trump were elected again, the country would likely see another rise in this type of outwardly vicious nationalism - much like what was seen in the last year or so of Trumps presidency. Trump refused to condemn nationalist, white supremacist groups like the KKK and Proud boys, and in doing so gave permission for blatant hate and violence to run rampant. Meanwhile, those who decide to protest these actions are derided by the President. From Colin Kaepernick and Meghan Rapinoe - who were ridiculed and insulted by Donald Trump for kneeling for the national anthem - to those who, later, marched and protested the killing of George Floyd and about whom Trump tweeted These Anarchists, not protesters, are Biden voters, but he has no control and nothing to say. Disgraceful. Never seen anything like it. Thugs. To quote Jill Lepore, The nation is often wrong. But so long as protest is possible it can always be righted (52). Yet, when these protests are deemed contemptible by the President of the United States, the process of righting the wrong - of fighting nationalism - becomes much more difficult. If Donald Trump, or someone who holds similar beliefs, were to become the President in 2024, nationalism would likely be allowed to spread freely. 
Though it is impossible to truly predict the future, we can base our assumptions on past and present experiences with those in power, and what impact their views made on Americans. Some presidents chose to fight the fire of nationalism, while others fan its flames.  
	 
McCammon, S. (2020, September 30). From debate stage, trump declines to denounce white supremacy. NPR. https://www.npr.org/2020/09/30/918483794/from-debate-stage-trump-declines-to-denounce-white-supremacy.
Badger, E. (2020, July 23). How Trump's use of federal forces in cities differs from past presidents. The New York Times. https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/upshot/trump-portland.html
Presented By, 49ers. (2017, September 23). Trump to anthem protesters: 'get that son of a b---- off the field'. RSN. https://www.nbcsports.com/bayarea/49ers/trump-anthem-protesters-get-son-b-field
Carroll, C. (2019, June 26). Trump invites USWNT to White house AFTER RAPINOE COMMENTS. Sports Illustrated. https://www.si.com/soccer/2019/06/26/donald-trump-megan-rapinoe-tweet-white-house-invitation-uswnt-womens-world-cup
Shear, M. D., & Stevens, M. (2021, September 1). U.S. considers Afghanistan Evacuations Beyond Aug. 31. The New York Times. https://www.nytimes.com/live/2021/08/22/world/taliban-afghanistan-biden-news
Beer, T. (2021, June 30). Trump called BLM PROTESTERS 'Thugs' But Capitol-Storming SUPPORTERS 'very Special'. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/tommybeer/2021/01/06/trump-called-blm-protesters-thugs-but-capitol-storming-supporters-very-special/?sh=1048d8263465
Kapur, S. (2021, August 18). The coming U.S. political fight over accepting refugees from Afghanistan. NBCNews.com. https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/coming-u-s-political-fight-over-accepting-refugees-afghanistan-n1277011?	
	The foundation of comedy is to make yourself relatable to the audience. What made Trevor Noah so relatable was his ability to belong to different groups through his races, languages, cultures, religion, and lifestyles. To an outsiders perspective, many of his childhood stories may seem unrelatable and over-exaggerated, but throughout the book, Noah showed that in reality, many people had gone through his life experiences and it wasnt as uncommon as one might think. Although Noah could have been successful at comedy in South Africa even if he wasnt a bi-racial man who spoke a multitude of languages, his race and language skills unquestionably helped his success in comedy in a way that cannot be replicated. 
	Trevor Noah was born mixed; his father was a white Swiss man while his mother was a native South African. During apartheid in South Africa, it was illegal for a black person and a white person to have a child together. Despite this, Trevor was born. He knew his existence was illegal from a young age but it was only when he got older that he realized that there were others like him. After he became an established comedian and started traveling around the world for shows, he met other mixed South Africans all the time (30).  Your life experiences define who you are, and by extension, your humor and what you find funny.  Much of his childhood would have been extremely similar to the childhoods of other mixed South Africans who grew up during apartheid and they might have found the same things about Trevors childhood that he included in his comedy more humorous than someone who didnt go through some of the same experiences. 
	Not only was Trevors mixed race able to allow him to connect with other mixed people, he learned numerous languages through the course of his life. Language is power as communication is a human instinct. Humans crave connection with other humans and one way to do that is through communication, which is easiest when the same language is spoken. Trevor learned early on that the quickest way to bridge the race gap was through language, and he used that mentality throughout his life (54). Race is easy to overlook if some other characteristic, such as language, makes it easy to accept the similarities. He could fit in anywhere as long as he spoke their language. One of the first languages he learned to speak was English, which would have been, and probably still is, the most important and useful language in his arsenal. In South Africa, English is the language of money (54). As a comedian, English reaches out to one of the biggest comedy audiences in the world, not only to primarily English-speaking countries such as the United States and Great Britain, but also countries and people for whom learning English was also a necessity, a requirement for success in life. A part of what makes Trevors comedy so funny and appealing is his use of different languages and accents. Everytime Trevor speaks another different language in his comedy, he is able to open himself up to another group of people who might relate to his comedy and find it humorous. 
	Not only was Trevor born mixed, he also used that as the basis of his comedy. He essentially spoke out about a crime that was the reason why he was born, and a large part of his identity. A number of his fellow mixed South Africans can relate to that. Trevor spoke out about, and poured humor into, the story of when his mom was shot and the justice system allowed the offender to go free. Though to a privileged white person living in a first-world country, this might have seemed over-exaggerated and even fabricated. To a South African, or any person living in a third-world country, this story would have seemed relatable and even might have happened to their family or friends. The fact that Trevor used humor to tell such a horrific story shows others that its okay for humor to be a coping mechanism for traumatic events. 
	
	Comedy is a form of entertainment, but also a way for a comedian to connect with people and reach a large number of people through his words. Trevor's power to be a chameleon greatly influences his skill and success as a comedian. Without his fluidity across racial and cultural groups, his comedic audience would have been more restricted. Those that are able to relate to him and his humor would have been limited. Instead, Trevor can use his unique style of humor, apply it to his fascinating life, and watch the number of people he touches grow. 
?War On Writing Prompt
You've learned about some aspects of the War on Terror. You have studied your own war extensively. Now I want you to write 500 or so words about how you understand the impacting of framing something as a "war on", how you understand each conflict, and what connections you see. Specific examples are important. The main goal here is for you to show your ability to talk about framing, connections, and discussing nuance. 
Here is something to consider. Wars are waged with a goal in mind. Why are these wars being fought? Who benefits from having violence or disagreement framed as a war? With the War on Terror, there is now a never ending conflict that justifies the use of executive power. That power will exist as long as the war does. All of these wars are impossible to end as there is no victory. Consider how your wars can fit into this framework. 
The war on framing is used to force people into partisanships, because if you are not fighting for one side you are fighting for the other. Studying journalism led me to understand that the framing was used as a tactic to brew hatred, turmoil, and conflict. The war on journalism is not a war by any definition, but it is framed that way so people are forced to be for or against journalism. It is also framed that way to portray people in the other understanding as the enemy and as people to be attacked before they can attack. The war on journalism manifests in laws, police violence, and attacks by private citizens. It is not an armed conflict between two large groups, but that is what the framework works to create. By pushing people into groups and instilling fear in them from the connotations of war, the framing is able to pit people against each other and turn a conflict into a pseudo war carried out by individuals and legislature rather than armies. The war on terror was carried out as a series of by definition wars, but it also inspired the intense fear and islamophobia that America fosters to this day. It justifies the use of executive power, but it was not originally meant to be a war on middleeastern people, but the extremists that happened to be extremists in a religion centered in the middleeast. The government initially tried to differentiate the two, but you cannot separate peoples fears from the people who perpetrated them, nor can you separate the perpetrators from others that share their surface traits. However, with the fact that the war on terror was carried out as a series of wars in mind, it is still against a concept rather than another nation or state or people, and it is unending. By their definitions, wars can come to an end, but because these conflicts are not wars, just framed as such, they are unending and provide eternal justifications. The war on terror justifies executive action, the war on journalism justifies harassment of those you disagree with, the war on science justifies disagreement with facts, etc.. All these wars also disproportionately affect people of lower classes with fewer resources. The war on poverty, similar to how the war on journalism turned into a war on journalists, turned into a war on poor people. The war on the environment is a war on poor people on both sides. For those who are against environmental conservation, people in poor coastal communities sink, people in poor towns face drought, and the lacking infrastructure in poorer towns/states/countries cannot compensate for the environmental and atmospheric disasters, so they are destroyed. On the other side, poorer people who cannot afford the more expensive, environmentally friendly options are criticized rather than offered financial support so they can participate in conservation. Poorer countries are also expected to make swift changes to green energy when they dont have the infrastructure in place to make that switch like richer countries do. The war on education is also disproportionately affecting poor people because rich people will have access to good education no matter what, they can transport themselves, they can take the time to go to school, they can get education wherever they are, whereas poor people cannot. The war on drugs was to arrest minorities, groups that tend to make less money than majorities. The war on framework is often used to hide the agenda of a war on poor people because it distracts people by playing to their immediate fear response. ?Intro
https://www.gettyimages.co.uk/videos/group-therapy-teens?assettype=film&sort=best&p hrase=group%20therapy%20teens
https://www.nytimes.com/2021/09/20/world/asia/afghan-girls-schools-taliban.html
https://pharecircus.org/education-cambodia/
Education is considered a pillar of society. An undeniable human right more so serving as a privilege, and in turn, as an oppressor.

--
https://fineartamerica.com/featured/school-and-education-leon-zernitsky.html
Education by basic principle is meant to teach one how to be successful in their society. The more successful the individual, the more successful the whole.

--
https://srilanka.factcrescendo.com/english/fact-check-photo-claiming-to-be-najat-vallaud- belkacem-from-20-years-ago/
https://hmcarchitects.com/news/planning-a-stem-facility-despite-the-big-unknowns/
Education can look different for each community, whether tethered to the lush and verdant pastures of sheep herders, or the architectural bounds of the STEM focused.

--
https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/07/education-isnt-enough/590611/
But here's the seemingly ubiquitous conundrum that accompanies education: education is influenced by the norms of the community. But societies never exist in true equity, and this in turn, makes education an inequitable process.

(Video, play no audio 28:15-28:23) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3OaL1xqRuuE
However, throughout the history of a country, the pendulum will swing back and forth, progressing and regressing both the quality of and access to education.

(Have the word education on screen and add the flags of the countries as they are said)
Lets peer into how discrimination and inequity have presented themselves in education for youth in Cambodia, Afghanistan and the United States.
Baseline- Inequality
Opening Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3qlylxu7wvc (7-10 seconds)
(continue from 10-20 seconds of video above while speaking)
The Boston busing desegregation crisis took place in the United States as the result of continued segregation in schools, and lack of funding and resources for black youth.
--
This crisis was a stark display of white rage towards a change in both education and societal norms.
https://www.archivespublichistory.org/?tag=racial-imbalance-act
Segregation within schools was deemed illegal by the Racial Imbalance Act put into law in 1965 which said that racial segregation was present and deteriorated quality of education.

--
http://dsgsites.neu.edu/desegregation/racial-imbalance-act/
(Zoom in on line: Forced Busing Is Not The Issue. Quality Education Is.)
However, school Committee members denied implementing the act as at the time, only 63% of Americans supported integration.

--
(Video clip 25-31 sec)

--
9 years later, in 1974, a Judge tried to enforce desegregation by having black students ride on buses to white schools and white students ride on buses to black schools.

--
(Video clip 1:00- 1:13) Video clip 40-50 sec continue while speaking, no audio though
White parents were outraged that their children were receiving horrible educations and sent to bad parts of boston.

--
(Video clip 1:00- 1:13 skye not speaking)

They wrote slurs in the places black students occupied, threw bricks and eggs at black children, intimidated them, and took physical violence against them.

(Video clip 1:25-1:41 skye not speaking)
-
(Based on time maybe make this a title/caption about the photo while the video plays) This picture titled The Soiling of Old Glory came to be an iconic image in American history, showing a white teenager using the American flag like a sword to assault a black man. This photo was taken during the Boston busing desegregation crisis and shows the physical resistance to integration in schools and fear of not treating black people as inferior.
Cambodia Inequality Editing Materials
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NBe2aCuoec0 From 0:00 - 0:34 seconds
Afghanistan, a thriving and bustling country. In 1978, the year before the Soviets moved into Afghanistan, the countrys education system was improving. Despite Afghanistans history of inequality in education between girls and boys, that gap was growing smaller. 1 million children were going to school, and of those 1 million, hundreds of thousands of them were girls. At Kabul University, females made up 60% of the teachers and 40% of the doctors
1979, the year the Soviet army marched into Afghanistan. They would be there for 10 years.
This would be a time of discrimination and inequality. In this period of war and occupation, education under the Soviet Union was shaky.
The Soviets tried to indoctrinate the Afghan people both politically and culturally, teaching them their Communist ideologies.
However, many opportunities were created for the Afghan people, including scholarships for students and the teaching of skills to Afghan workers.
It was only till 1989 that the true destruction of Afghanistans education system was revealed. Hundreds of schools had been destroyed or used as bunkers.
There was a shortage of both schools and teachers as those who had opposed the government had either fled or been killed.
Regression-Violence
Opening Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U5QG-I9Ced0 (6 sec - 17 sec)
---
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2018/02/20/the-florida-school-shooting-is-not
-fading-from-headlines/
School shootings are a recently new phenomenon. Talk to students today, and theyll recite the procedure to a school shooter lockdown-- something their parents cant imitate.

--
(Put the following statistics on the screen over the newspapers above)
Since Columbine in 1999, there have been 231 school shootings and greater than 256,000 students have been exposed to gun violence in their schools. So why has this been allowed to occur?

--
As debate about gun control continues to intensify in past decades, there is another issue which needs addressing the lack of school psychologists and support systems for youth.
--
All of the common causes for students to turn to violence can be addressed through a trained and professional school psychologist (list common causes on screen: school shooters may have suffered childhood abuse and trauma, have a lack of coping skills, feel outcasted or ostracized, or have low self esteem. Theyre always students in crisis whose anger manifests into violence).
On average, there is 1 psychologist per 2,000 students and a recommended number is 1 per 400-500.

Additionally, the environment of the school plays a huge role in communication between faculty and students which dictates if an intervention for a school shooter will happen before it takes place. Only 50% of students said theyd tell an adult if they knew about a possible school shooting.
Cambodia Regression Editing Materials
Video of Afghanistan under Taliban Rule: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ErUZsZv9AAM 5:36 - 5:50
(Continue video until I finish speaking this part)
The Taliban, a fundamentalist Islamic militia, took over the country in 1996 by killing the president and establishing themselves as the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan.
Many of the Taliban fighters had grown up in orphanages and been educated in Islamic schools, something that was represented in the way they handled education during their reign.
Most of the oppression under their rule happened to females. Immediately after the takeover, the Taliban halted education for girls. Throughout the entire period, less than 3% of girls received some form of primary education.
All girls schools were closed down by the Taliban. Many teachers fled the country.
This was a period of violence in schools.
Many schools were raided or bombed and female students who continued to go to school and learn were targeted by the Taliban.
When the Taliban finally left in 2001, only 1 million children nationwide were attending school.
Progression
(In first sentence, flash the different act photos and their names)
Freedom of Speech
No child left behind act
Individuals With Disabilities Education Act
The implementation of inclusivity acts in the United states saw a progression in the fight for equitable education.

--
https://quotesgram.com/title-ix-quotes/
One of which, Title IX, was a federal civil rights law put into action in 1972. This law prohibits discrimnation on the basis of sex in schools which use money supplied by the federal govenrment. This includes listening to and resolving cases involving sexual harassment and assualt, and prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity.

Betsy Devos, former US secretary of education, under Trumps administration, set in place regulations on managing sexual harassment, making it nearly impossible for victims to be heard.

-
http://library.cqpress.com/cqresearcher/document.php?id=cqresrre2019062100
This was done by redefining sexual harassment till the point nearly no case could pass the definition, and by placing the redefined rule within a 2,033 page document making it extremely difficult for people trained on sexual violence on campuses to understand the complexity of the revision.
The current Education Administration is revising the Title IX rollbacks and debating on what discrimination truly means.

--
Many states have introduced legislation that will ban transgender students from particpating in sports. But will the federal government enforce a new interpretation of title IX for all schools?
While the addition of inclusivity acts gave a voice to some wronged by our educational system, people are starting to peer into what true inclusivity looks like. And as we attempt to progress forward, there will always seems to be large back swings and periods of explicit inequity and discrimination.
Cambodia Progression Editing Materials
The period from 2001-2021 was a time of progression for Afghanistan. Both the schools and the education system were rebuilt. By 2003, over 4 million children, 1 million of whom were girls, were getting an education at one of over 7,000 schools nationwide.
At the beginning of this period, only around 15% of women were literate. That number rose to 30% in 2018.
By 2013, the number of schools had risen to 16,000 with 10.5 million students. The number of primary school students had risen by 6 million in only 9 years. Statistics showed an upward trend in education. Hope was rising.
2021 Outlook
https://www.pinterest.com/pin/607704543456444641/
In present day, USA as always peers into inequities in the education system. All of the issues 50 years ago have yet to be resolved. Segregation is still pervasive in the terms of districting and high income vs low income communities.

https://edtrust.org/the-equity-line/students-color-face-steep-school-funding-gaps/
Affluent neighborhoods fund their school districts meaning more money and resources for the students attending school. Additionally, racial minorities are historically underserved and grouped into districts. Meaning that segregation in education based on wealth disproportionately affects minorities (black people) and serves the privileged (white).

--
Additionally, inclusivity in schools is continuously being debated. Hb 3979, a Texas law passed in may this year, limits how a teacher can teach contentious issues.

--
https://www.fox4news.com/news/texas-senate-passes-new-version-of-hb-3979-which-wo uld-restrict-teaching-critical-race-theory-in-schools
(Video on page starting from 40 sec to 55 sec or how long makes sense)

--
(continue video imagery while talking)
An example is a teacher cannot say that the United States was built on slavery or talk about other race pertinent issues, and must keep students who engage in political advocacy from getting recognition and awards for their work. It also encourages for events to be considered from multiple and opposing perspectives. A texas administrator said this should include the holocaust.
--
https://www.virginiamercury.com/2021/10/28/why-the-furor-over-critical-race-theory-mi sses-the-point/
Continued segregation based on income and tried inclusivity acts that target critical race theory for students, shows that the issues present 50 years ago are continuously being examined.
Cambodia 2021 Outlook
2021 Taliban Takeover Video:
https://www.nytimes.com/live/2021/08/15/world/taliban-afghanistan-news/afghan-americ ans-angry-over-taliban-victory-protest-in-washington
2021 Afghanistan Female Students:
2021. The Taliban has successfully taken over Afghanistan. The US? Gone. The future? Uncertain.
Classrooms are gender segregated with male teachers teaching boys and female teachers teaching girls. This is a major problem because there is a shortage of teachers for girls since the majority of teachers are male. Education, especially for girls, is looking bleak.
However, there is still hope for Afghanistan.
Activists around the world, like the famous Malala, have been working to make education more equal for girls
and make education accessible for all.
Ending
All around the world, children are seen as symbols of hope, hope that the next generation will do better. Schools are seen as peaceful and intellectual locations.
The education of children has been handled very differently across the three countries we explored today. Even throughout history, education has faced periods of turmoil and violence, then peace and progression, then regression again.
The future is in the hands of the children, and how we educate these children, and what principles we teach them to follow, will make or break the future.
Works Cited
Bibliography
Afghanistan Takeover: A Timeline of the Taliban's Swift Advance. The Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones & Company,
https://www.wsj.com/video/series/on-the-news/afghanistan-takeover-a-timeline-of-the-tal ibans-swift-advance/D2B2154C-FD4D-4169-B3A0-286644C379A1.
Afghanistan Under Taliban Rule (1996) Youtube, uploaded by Journeyman Pictures 3 August 2007, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ErUZsZv9AAM
Blue, Victor J., and David Zucchino. A Harsh New Reality for Afghan Women and Girls in Taliban-Run Schools. The New York Times, The New York Times, 20 Sept. 2021, https://www.nytimes.com/2021/09/20/world/asia/afghan-girls-schools-taliban.html.
Borchers, Callum. Analysis | The Florida School Shooting Is Not Fading from Headlines. The Washington Post, WP Company, 28 Apr. 2019, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2018/02/20/the-florida-school-shootin g-is-not-fading-from-headlines/.
Cambodia. College of Liberal Arts' Wordmark,
https://cla.umn.edu/chgs/holocaust-genocide-education/resource-guides/cambodia.
Can We Prevent School Shootings?: Alfred University. Www.alfred.edu, https://www.alfred.edu/about/news/studies/lethal-school-violence/can-we-prevent.cfm.
Chaos of Florida School Shooting Revealed in Newly Released 911 calls Youtube, uploaded by TODAY 9 March 2018, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dlDGGpcDUyA
Chatterjee, Rhitu. School Shooters: What's Their Path to Violence? NPR, NPR, 10 Feb. 2019, https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2019/02/10/690372199/school-shooters-whats- their-path-to-violence.
Desegregation Busing: Encyclopedia of Boston. Desegregation Busing | Encyclopedia of Boston, https://bostonresearchcenter.org/projects_files/eob/single-entry-busing.html.
Foundation, Thomson Reuters. How Will Taliban Rule Impact Girls' Education in Afghanistan? News.trust.org, https://news.trust.org/item/20210831110425-cvykj/.
History and Problems of Education in Afghanistan.
https://www.shs-conferences.org/articles/shsconf/pdf/2016/04/shsconf_erpa2016_01124. pdf.
History of Education in Afghanistan - Afghanistan. ReliefWeb, https://reliefweb.int/report/afghanistan/history-education-afghanistan.
In Cambodia's Schools, Breaking a Silence over the 'Killing Fields'. United States Institute of Peace, 17 Sept. 2021,
https://www.usip.org/publications/2015/04/cambodias-schools-breaking-silence-over-killi ng-fields.
Isachenkov, Vladimir. 30 Years On, Russia Views Afghan War With Pride". AP NEWS, 2021, https://apnews.com/article/moscow-russia-ap-top-news-international-news-asia-pacific-e 130cfcb747d43ecae2a496e6cb9e764. Accessed 2 Nov 2021.
Khapalwak, Carlotta Gall and Ruhullah. 20-Year U.S. War Ending as It Began, with Taliban Ruling Afghanistan. The New York Times, The New York Times, 29 Aug. 2021, https://www.nytimes.com/live/2021/08/15/world/taliban-afghanistan-news#afghan-ameri cans-angry-over-taliban-victory-protest-in-washington.
Khmer Rouge Ideology. Holocaust Memorial Day Trust,
https://www.hmd.org.uk/learn-about-the-holocaust-and-genocides/cambodia/khmer-rouge
-ideology/#:~:text=For%20the%20Khmer%20Rouge%2C%20children,Khmer%20laws% 20were%20corrupt%20enemies.
NPR Cookie Consent and Choices "NPR Cookie Consent And Choices". Npr.Org, 2021, https://www.npr.org/2021/08/19/1028472005/afghanistan-conflict-timeline. Accessed 2
Nov 2021.
Orfield, Gary, et al. Brown v. Board: Timeline of School Integration in the U.S. Learning for Justice,
https://www.learningforjustice.org/magazine/spring-2004/brown-v-board-timeline-of-sch ool-integration-in-the-us.
Pearson, Martha. Boston before Busing, 29 Apr. 2015, http://dsgsites.neu.edu/desegregation/racial-imbalance-act/.
Pearson, Martha. Racial Imbalance Act. Boston before Busing, 29 Apr. 2015, http://dsgsites.neu.edu/desegregation/racial-imbalance-act/.
"Photos From 25 Years Ago Show What Afghanistan Looked Like The Last Time The Taliban Took Over". News.Yahoo.Com, 2021,
https://news.yahoo.com/photos-25-years-ago-show-010655563.html?guce_referrer=aHR 0cHM6Ly93d3cuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbS8&guce_referrer_sig=AQAAALuaHmNXE8X9ha1 wRGvmTmhQ5TKSBHvH4mAIDWg844F5N0XsAg9grYGIVxTpulIoh2LRYfSkECkr0 geZjGVhUK2369k5KR8r_CIuwx9jY9pFfny3VLyeGYiN6kBnG335J4LnfdTy0piYxRro NOcSoLQwbxRgxpnQh6To_Dp_OX9m&guccounter=2. Accessed 2 Nov 2021.
Rogers, Katie. Title IX Protections Extend to Transgender Students, Education Dept. Says. The New York Times, The New York Times, 16 June 2021, https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/16/us/politics/title-ix-transgender-students.html.
SYND 2 1 75 REFUGEES FLEE TOWARDS PHNOM PENH FOLLOWING FIGHTING
Youtube, uploaded by AP Archive, 23 July 2015, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MdrWWLcQ84s&list=PLn3-z9wSNGg6ZrcyuIzzD1 clNWRJFmnn4
Taylor, A. Taylor, Alan. "The Soviet War In Afghanistan, 1979 - 1989". The Atlantic, 2021, https://www.theatlantic.com/photo/2014/08/the-soviet-war-in-afghanistan-1979-1989/100 786/. Accessed 2 Nov 2021.
Title IX Quotes. Title Ix Quotes. QuotesGram, https://quotesgram.com/title-ix-quotes/.
The Long, Shameful List of Gunfire on School Grounds in America. Everytown Research & Policy, 22 Mar. 2021, https://everytownresearch.org/maps/gunfire-on-school-grounds/.
The Soviet Invasion of Afghanistan, 1979: Not Trumps Terrorists, Nor Zbigs Warm Water Ports
| National Security Archive "The Soviet Invasion Of Afghanistan, 1979: Not TrumpS Terrorists, Nor ZbigS Warm Water Ports | National Security Archive".
Nsarchive.Gwu.Edu, 2019,
https://nsarchive.gwu.edu/briefing-book/afghanistan-russia-programs/2019-01-29/soviet-i nvasion-afghanistan-1979-not-trumps-terrorists-nor-zbigs-warm-water-ports. Accessed 2
Nov 2021.
"Twenty Years After Pullout, Soviet-Afghan Conflict Still Haunts". Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 2009, https://www.rferl.org/a/Twenty_Years_After_Pullout_SovietAfghan_Conflict_Still_Haun ts/1493064.html. Accessed 2 Nov 2021.
WBZ Archives: Raw Video 1974 Boston Busing Protests Youtube, uploaded by CBS Boston, 23 May 2018, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3qlylxu7wvc
Weitz, Richard, et al. Afghanistan's Children: The Tragic Victims of 30 Years of War. Middle East Institute, 1 Nov. 2021,
https://www.mei.edu/publications/afghanistans-children-tragic-victims-30-years-war.
Womens education in Afghanistan threatened Youtube, uploaded by Al Jazeera English 24 December 2013 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NBe2aCuoec0
Women in Afghanistan ~ Education. PBS, Public Broadcasting Service, 14 Oct. 2008, https://www.pbs.org/wnet/wideangle/uncategorized/women-in-afghanistan-education/220 0/
Your Child's Rights: 6 Principles of Idea. Smart Kids, 21 June 2021, https://www.smartkidswithld.org/getting-help/know-your-childs-rights/your-childs-rights- 6-principles-of-idea/.
