Periodical Discourses
Late Edition:
Today, mostly cloudy, low
54. Tonight, clouds give way to sunshine, high 65. Tomorrow, rainy, windy, low 53
VOL. CLXII . . No 56,158	ST. PETERSBURG, SATURDAY, JULY 23, 1863
On Crime
BY RODION RAMONOVICH RASKOLNIKOV
History has progressed only through paving roads with blood. The lawgivers and
society toward the New Jerusalem3 be moral criminals? How can bloodshed and progress be intrinsically linked? The explanation requires a reevaluation of the
because the crime benefits the greater good. In the act of committing	these crimes,		the
extraordinary man suffers  for  humanity.
Indeed,  truly  great
and reach[es] [its] climax not long before the execution of the crime; [it] continue[s] in the same form at the very moment of the crime and still for some time	afterward,
trailblazers of humanity,
perceived relationship
individuals	must
depending
on	the
10
beginning with the
between Man and God.
experience	great
individual.
This
ancients, continuing with Lycurgus, the Solons, Mohammeds, Napoleons, and so forth1 permanently altered the course of mankinds development, introducing new laws to all of humanity. Such people are celebrated, put on a pedestal, and worshipped by humanity as benefactors of mankind. And yet, it is important to note that the majority of these people only succeeded in bringing about a new order through violence.
In fact, these people were particularly horrible shedders of blood.2 Indeed, under the lens through which we believe God judges society, the very actions that deliver the common good to mankind are the greatest of sins.
However, how can those that advance

Mans relationship with God is not uniform, but rather corresponds to the two general categories into which all of humanity is divided: the extraordinary and the ordinary. The former category consists of trailblazers capable of introducing a new word4 to society. These extraordinary people can, in a sense, become God. By this, I mean that such extraordinary people may overstep moral laws if they deem it just and necessary to make their	discoveries known to man.5 In other words, these extraordinary men have the right to establish and follow their own moral code: their own religion. Such men are not inferior to God; they are not made of flesh and blood, but of bronze.6 When such men shed blood, it is not a moral crime
sorrow in this world.7 In	this	way, extraordinary men are like Christ, suffering to raise not Lazarus, but a new word from the ground.
By contrast, those who fit	into		 the				ordinary category							are					not permitted					to				overstep moral laws as they are incapable			of				shedding blood			that						 would refresh			 society				 and usher		 in					a			new		age. Ordinary					 persons			 are unified by one defining characteristic:									the psychological					 illness that		consumes			them when		they			commit	a crime.				The						illness replaces															 ones willpower					 and	reason with					phenomenal childish thoughtlessness8 and thus  prevents  the ordinary  man  from cleanly  executing  a crime. This illness is the root of why the ordinary mans crime is so  conspicuous,  so easily  discovered.9 This illness develop[s] gradually,
illness is guilt, a manifestation of the friction between ones nature and ones actions. For the extraordinary man, an act of crime is in line with his nature, and thus no such guilt infects him. However, for the ordinary man, an act of crime contradicts his nature, and thus guilt arises within him. This guilt is natures punishment for those who step out of line from the destiny God ordained. There is no need to prosecute such persons as theyll beat themselves up because theyre so well-behaved.11 This is the law of nature and it enforces the natural order, a society in which people who are conservative,
well-behaved,    and
obedient by nature serve to preserve the world and increase its population12 while those who instinctively break the law13 serve to [destroy] the present order in the name of something better.14
Editor in Chief: Amelia Alpren
SATURDAY, 1863
Periodical Discourses
23 July
In Response to Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikovs On Crime
motive.	Indeed,	each
BY PORFIRY PETRVICH	word	of	the	article
seems	to	cut	two
15
another aspect too. I can envision it now. Oppressed by the low
On Crime, by Rodion	ways.	Could  it  be
ceilings	and	cramped
Romanovich Raskolnikov,		divides humanity		into			two categories,								the extraordinary and the ordinary,	and		then proceeds to explain the relationships	between God and each of these categories of people. He writes						that
extraordinary persons may play the role of God and transgress moral laws in the name of the greater good, while ordinary persons, those inferior to God, are obligated to be obedient. This division of humanity, however, is not what consumed my interest. No rather, as the examining magistrate, it was indeed Raskolnikovs words about the psychology of the ordinary criminal - the illness that accompanies an ordinary mans crime - that interested me the most. In fact, I must admit, that it was using this theory of psychological illness to analyze the author himself that provided me with the most excitement.
It	seems		entirely possible,	if		not probable, that our own dear		author,	Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov, wrote On Crime with an ulterior
possible				that							in composing				this				 very article, our author was attempting					to			prove that	 he						was					an extraordinary					man uttering		some					new word?16	 After					 all, who	among		us			 in Holy		Rus					doesnt consider		himself				a Napoleon										these days.17
And yet, in writing his article, Raskolnikov seems to have undermined the very goal that he tried to achieve with his piece. In convincing himself that	he	is
extraordinary and above everyone else, Raskolnikov isolated himself.	Without anywhere to go, without any palpable external goal, our dear author had no choice but to retreat within himself, behind the corners of his mind. And it was this fact that his faith laid only within himself that made him utterly incapable of standing among		the
extraordinary, for how can our author be a benefactor of mankind if he only considers himself  only suffers for himself and no other?
But our authors isolation pronounced him ordinary in yet
walls of his mind, Raskolnikov ruminated on his theory until thinking became too excruciating. He laid in his very own coffin and rather than living like a Napoleon, he pondered what a Napoleon would do Ironically, by asking himself this question, our	author
demonstrates							his unextraordinary nature.			A	Napoleon does not think about what an extraordinary person	would		do	but rather		acts				as			an extraordinary					person without					thought. Indeed, become a sun and everyone will see you18 and note that one	cannot	 become by		[philosophizing] too cleverly.19
Let me now state that the purpose of my article is not to condemn our author or name him utterly useless. Rather, I believe that, though twisted, the article shines as evidence of a promising	and intelligent individual; I do appreciate that first, ardent, youthful literary effort.20 But this proud, suppressed enthusiasm		is dangerous in youth!21 as most youths are not above the law or above
SATURDAY, 1863
Periodical Discourses
23 July
Poetry:
Lazarus
BY RODION RAMONOVICH RASKOLNIKOV
I thought I was Christ
the extraordinary man waking Lazarus
rousing those around me and lifting up
new ideas
And yet,
This morning
When	I	followed	the	lines	of	my apartment walls
to where they meet at an angle When I felt my low ceilings oppress me like a coffin26
I realized
I was not living.
I was the one who needed to be
Woken up
When I opened my eyes and asked, Who woke me up?
I did not see the eyes of a criminal
the sharp jaw of a cunning man
BREAKING: Nikolai Dementiev Recants his Confession
A destroyer
27
CLASSIFIEDS
But warm, frightened eyes A copper cross28
belonging to a young woman hanging over me
As her spine bent, bearing the suffering of
her mother
her sisters
her brothers
And me, she said,
Well go suffer
together,
well bear our crosses together!29
Sonya,

Katerina Ivanovnas Boarding School for Noble Young Ladies
The very name will become a synonym for superiority and excellence
 St. Petersburg Press
Katerina Ivanovnas Boarding School for Noble Young Ladies
I thank thee
30
The gentlemans daughter who desires an education fit for her aristocratic
that thou has heard me
Tuchkov Bridge spanning across Little Neva in Saint Petersburg, Russia.
lineage will be sure to attend my boarding school for noble young ladies. Rigorous yet elegant, my boarding school hosts lectures from various gymnasium teachers, including M. Mangot,31 a respectable Frenchman who taught French long ago to yours truly.
Meet the Headmistress:
I, Katerina Ivanovna, will establish this school and reside as the schools headmistress. My qualifications are abundant. However, the quality I am proudest to bring to my role as headmistress is my understanding of our students, our daughters of gentlemen, as I was once one of them. Indeed, I descended from a noble, one could even say aristocratic, household32 and was daughter of a decorated court councelor. In fact, I performed the shawl dance in the presence of the governor and other distinguished people33 at the institute graduation ball. I even have a certificate of merit to prove my noble heritage!
SATURDAY, 1863
Periodical Discourses
23 July
FOOTNOTES
1285
2285
3287
4286
5285
6301
7291
878
977
1078
11288
12287
13.286
14287
15"And when we started scrutinizing your article then, when you began expounding on it - we understood each and every one of your words in two ways, as if there were another word implied by each!" (499).
16291
17291-2
18507
19I know you dont believe it - but dont philosophize too cleverly; give yourself up to life directly, without deliberating" (506).
20498
21497
22507
23508
24508
25501
26"'You have such an awful room, Rodya. It's like a coffin"' (254).
27"with modest, proper manners, and an innocent but seemingly frightened face" (260).
28.'"No, probably not. Here, take this one, it's cypress wood. I have another one, a copper one; it was Lizaveta's"' (464).
29.464
30360
31"Now inspired, Katerina Ivanovna soon enlarged on all the details of her future splendid and serene way of life in T---; about the gymnasium teachers she would invite to give lectures at her school; about a respectable old Frenchman, M. Mangot, who had one taught Katerina Ivanovna French in school and who was living out his years in T---" (427).
32427
33427
34"Some people in his family were Runners" (500).
35"Do you know that he's one of the schismatics, not exactly a schismatic, but simply a sectarian" (500).
36501
37Petersburg made a very strong impression on him, especially the female sex, and the vodka as well. Hes very impressionable, sir, and he forgot all about his elder and about everything else (501).
38Well, he lost heart  and attempted to hang himself. He tried to run away (501).
39Well, sir, now that hes in prison, hes apparently remembered his honest elder; his Bibles also reappeared (501).
40Do you know, Rodion Romanych, what the word suffering means for some of these people? Its not exactly for anyone else, but its simply necessary to suffer. That means to accept suffering; if its from the powers that be, so much the better (501).
Some questions/topics to consider/get you started:
How does programmed cell death work?
What are the cancer and/or other connections?
Apoptosis is the process of programmed cell death. It is used during early development to eliminate unwanted cells; for example, those between the fingers of a developing hand. In adults, apoptosis is used to rid the body of cells that have been damaged beyond repair. Apoptosis also plays a role in preventing cancer. National Human Genome Research Institute
apoptosis refers to a process of what's called programmed cell death where the cell is actually in a funny kind of way committing suicide. National Human Genome Research Institute
1. Programmed cell death is as needed for proper development as mitosis is.
Examples:
The resorption of the tadpole tail at the time of its metamorphosis into a frog occurs by apoptosis.
The formation of the fingers and toes of the fetus requires the removal, by apoptosis, of the tissue between them.
The sloughing off of the inner lining of the uterus (the endometrium) at the start of menstruation occurs by apoptosis.
The formation of the proper connections (synapses) between neurons in the brain requires that surplus cells be eliminated by apoptosis.
The elimination of T cells that might otherwise mount an autoimmune attack on the body occurs by apoptosis.
During the pupal stage of insects that undergo complete metamorphosis, most of the cells of the larva die by apoptosis thus providing the nutrients for the development of the structures of the adult.
2. Programmed cell death is needed to destroy cells that represent a threat to the integrity of the organism.
Examples:
Cells infected with viruses
Cells of the immune system
Cells with DNA damage
Cancer cells
-LibreTextsBiology
In adult tissues, cell death exactly balances cell division. If this were not so, the tissue would grow or shrink. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK26873/#:~:text=If%20cells%20are%20no%20longer,as%20leaves%20from%20a%20tree). 
By contrast, a cell that undergoes apoptosis dies neatly, without damaging its neighbors. The cell shrinks and condenses. The cytoskeleton collapses, the nuclear envelope disassembles, and the nuclear DNA breaks up into fragments. Most importantly, the cell surface is altered, displaying properties that cause the dying cell to be rapidly phagocytosed, either by a neighboring cell or by a macrophage (a specialized phagocytic cell, discussed in Chapter 24), before any leakage of its contents occurs. This not only avoids the damaging consequences of cell necrosis but also allows the organic components of the dead cell to be recycled by the cell that ingests it. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK26873/#:~:text=If%20cells%20are%20no%20longer,as%20leaves%20from%20a%20tree). 
Cell Bible: 1115 - 1129
Why does apoptosis occur?
-Eliminate unwanted cells, ex. development of digits during embryonic development or apoptosis in a tadpoles tail as it changes to a frog
-Quality-control: eliminate cells that are abnormal, misplaced, non-functional, or potentially dangerous
-Balance of cell division and cell death in tissue that is neither growing nor shrinking(the control mechanisms for the balance are unknown)
-Maintain a ready supply of short lived cells like neutrophils cells (type of white blood cells in human bone marrow), so they are ready if needed
-Animal cells recognizing damage damage to their organelles and killing themsleves
-Important example: DNA damage which can produce cancer causing mutations, if the cell cant repair the damage, they undergo apoptosis
Executioner caspases:
-Cleave and activate other executioner caspases
-Cleave target protiens such as
-Nuclear lamins, which cases the irreversible breakdown of the nuclear lamina(a structural network thats part of the nuclear envelope)
-A protein that holds a DNA-degrading enzyme in an inactive state, freeing the endonuclease to cut up the DNA in the nucleus
-Parts of cytoskeleton and proteins involved in attaching cells to their neighboring cells, this helps the apoptotic cell round up and detach from its neighbors, getting ready to be engulfed
Pearson Textbook: Chapter 16.1, only a small section though, look up apoptosis for other sections
Apoptosis caused by Internal signals:
Triggered by cell damage. 
1.Protein bax inhibits the protein bcl-12 on the surface of the mitochondria. Bcl-12 is related to inhibiting apoptosis
2.Bax also punches holes in the cell membrane and causes cytochrome-c to escape into the cytoplasm
3.The released cytochrome-c then binds to a protein called apaf-1(apoptotic protease activating factor-1)
4.Using the energy provided by ATP, these complexes aggregate to form apoptosomes. The apoptosomes bind to and activate caspase-9. Caspase-9 is one of a family of over a dozen caspases. They are all proteases. They get their name because they cleave proteins  mostly each other  at aspartic acid (Asp) residues.
5.Caspase-9 cleaves and, in so doing, activates other caspases (caspase-3 and -7).
6.The activation of these "executioner" caspases creates an expanding cascade of proteolytic activity (rather like that in blood clotting and complement activation) which leads to
a.digestion of structural proteins in the cytoplasm,
b.degradation of chromosomal DNA
c.phagocytosis of the cell
-LibreTextsBiology
This pathway is activated by a vast array of cellular stresses, including growth factor deprivation, cytoskeletal disruption, DNA damage, accumulation of unfolded proteins, hypoxia, and many others. It can also be activated by developmental signals that instruct cells to die, such as hormones -Cold Spring Harbor Labs
Apoptosis caused by external signalsEx. T-cells causing an infected cell to commit suicide
1.Fas and the TNF receptor are integral membrane proteins with their receptor domains exposed at the surface of the cell
2.Binding of the complementary death activator (FasL and TNF respectively) transmits a signal to the cytoplasm that leads to the activation of caspase 8
3.Caspase 8 (like caspase 9) initiates a cascade of caspase activation leading to phagocytosis of the cell.
4.Example: When cytotoxic T cells recognize (bind to) their target,
a.They produce more FasL at their surface.
b.This binds with the Fas on the surface of the target cell leading to its death by apoptosis.
Even cancer cells produced without the participation of viruses may have tricks to avoid apoptosis.
Some B-cell leukemias and lymphomas express high levels of Bcl-2, thus blocking apoptotic signals they may receive. The high levels result from a translocation of the BCL-2 gene into an enhancer region for antibody production.
Melanoma (the most dangerous type of skin cancer) cells avoid apoptosis by inhibiting the expression of the gene encoding Apaf-1.
Some cancer cells, especially lung and colon cancer cells, secrete elevated levels of a soluble "decoy" molecule that binds to FasL, plugging it up so it cannot bind Fas. Thus, cytotoxic T cells (CTL) cannot kill the cancer cells by the mechanism shown above.
Other cancer cells express high levels of FasL, and can kill any cytotoxic T cells (CTL) that try to kill them because CTL also express Fas (but are protected from their own FasL).
-LibreTextsBiology
An extracellular cue called a ligand will bind to the death receptors(Part of Tumor Necrosis Factor superfamily) on the membrane of the cell. Examples of death receptors are the TNF receptor-1, Fas/ CD95/ APO-1, TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand receptor-1 (TRAIL-R1; also called DR4), and TRAIL-R2 (also called DR5 in humans). Death receptor ligands include TNF, CD95-ligand (CD95-L; also called Fas-L), TRAIL (also called Apo2-L), and TNF-like ligand 1A (TL1A). Binding a ligand to a death receptor will cause procaspase-8 to be recruited to the cytoplasmic tail in the cell, once it binds to a death domain on that tail, it becomes activated and starts the process of apoptosis, becoming caspase-8 -Cold Spring Harbor Labs
The outcome of DR-mediated activation of caspase-8 depends on the cell type. In so-called type I cells, caspase-8 initiates apoptosis directly by cleaving and thereby activating executioner caspases. In type II cells, caspase-8 must first activate the intrinsic apoptotic pathway (discussed below) to induce efficient cell death (Samraj et al. 2006). Type I and II cells differ in their content of intracellular inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs), which block executioner caspase function unless suppressed by proteins released from the mitochondria (Jost et al. 2009; Spencer et al. 2009). -Cold Spring Harbor Labs
Apoptosis without using a caspase
Neurons and maybe? Other cells have a protein called the apoptosis-inducing factor(AIF) inside of the mitochondria.
The cell will receive a signal causing AIF to be released from the membrane of the mitochondria, then binding to the DNA in the nucleus and killing the cell.
-LibreTextsBiology
Too little apoptosis
some diseases that stem from the inhibition of apoptosis(cancer) inhibit the process by inhibition of the FasL and Apof-1 proteins, or producing high levels of Bcl-2 and FasL to stop the apoptosis pathways from occurring
Too much apoptosis(and too little?)
Immune cells(lymphocytes) need to be removed from the body after an infection except for the memory cells. Autoimmune diseases occur when the immune response cells (T/B cells) arent killed off after and infection and continue to proliferate, enlarge, and start attacking cells they arent supposed to.
How Caspases cause cell death:
Once the signal to create a caspase is caused in a cell, the caspase creation works as a positive feedback loop, making more and more caspases out of inert molecules around the cell, until the cell fully dies. This kind of a rolling surge, spurred by the activity of one or a few things, is known as a trigger wave -Stanford med
Caspases are classified by their roles in apoptosis and inflammation. Apoptosis caspases are (caspase-3, -6, -7, -8, and -9 in mammals) There are initiator caspases(8,9) and executioner caspases(3,6,7) 
Initiator caspases: the ones that get activated by either Apaf-1(caspase-9) or the death activator from the T-cells(caspase-8) both cause the trigger wave cascade to start. -Cold Spring Harbor Labs
Executioner caspases: Held inert normally due to their structure, but are activated when a specific site is cleaved by an initiator caspase, bringing the two activators in the structure together and allowing the executioner caspase to cleave the inhibitors of other executioner caspases. Also cleave various substrates, which causes contents harmful to the cell to be activated and released into the cytoplasm.
Caspase-9 and -8 mutations have been shown to be statistically significant in the proliferation of various types of cancer, with all of the mutations inactivating either caspase. Other mutations in both caspases have shown a decrease in cancer risk overall.
Caspase activity is a double-edged sword. Although defective caspase activation and the inadequate cell death that results can promote tumorigenesis, extreme caspase activation and the excessive cell death that ensues can promote neurodegenerative conditions. -Cold Spring Harbor Labs
Caspase-3 Essential for neuronal cell death; caspase-3 is an essential component in some apoptosis pathways, dependent on the stimulus and cell type; essential for the regulation of B-cell homeostasis -Cold Spring Harbor Labs
The main effector of DNA fragmentation in apoptosis. Accomplishes this by cleaving a substrate(DFF45/ICAD) to release an endonuclease(DFF40/ CAD) that causes the DNA fragmentation. Caspase-7 plays a secondary role in this specific cleavage process, backing up the effects of Caspase-3 -JBC
Caspase-6 Activated by caspase-3, degrades lamins(major architectural proteins of an animal cell nucleus) and activates procaspase-3, helping amplify the positive feedback loop/ trigger wave of apoptosis.-JBC
 Improper expression of caspase-6 is also involved in huntingtons disease and Alzheimers. Can be activated w/o caspase-3, and can also do autoactivation. Caspase-6 is widely expressed in the brain and peripheral tissues (1721). In addition to being involved in apoptosis, caspase-6 is highly involved in axon pruning during development (2225) and in adult brains (26); pathological axonal degeneration (2729); and neurodegenerative diseases such as Huntington's disease (HD) -Activation and Regulation of Caspase-6 and Its Role in Neurodegenerative Diseases
High levels of casp-6 are found in brains with alzheimers, 
Apoptosis is crucial to embryonic development, causing limbs to form properly by deleting unneeded cells(webs between fingers), and deleting unneeded brian matter. The brain matter part is really important, an embryo with low or no Caspase-9/8 levels has a high chance of dying before being born.
Apoptosis vs. necrosis: 
-Generally, there are two ways in which a cell can die 
-They are killed by things that harm them (such as toxic chemicals or physical injury), a process called necrosis.
-They are triggered to undergo programmed cell death. The best-understood form of programmed cell death is apoptosis.
-Necrosis: 
-because the damaged cells plasma membrane can no longer control the passage of ions and water, the cell swells up, and its contents leak out through holes in the plasma membrane. This often causes inflammation in the tissue surrounding the dead cell.
-Apoptosis:
-Cells undergoing apoptosis first shrink and develop blebs, bubble-like protrusions, on their surface. 
-The DNA in the nucleus gets chopped up into small pieces, and some organelles of the cell, such as the endoplasmic reticulum, break down into fragments. 
-In the end, the entire cell splits up into small chunks, each neatly enclosed in a package of membrane.
-Such fragments release signals that attract debris-eating (phagocytic) immune cells, such as macrophages.
-the fragments of the dying cell display a lipid molecule called phosphatidylserine on their surface. Phosphatidylserine is usually hidden on the inside of the membrane, and when it is on the outside, it lets the phagocytes bind and "eat" the cell fragments.
Why do cells undergo apoptosis:
-Development: Some cells need to be deleted during development  for instance, to whittle an intricate structure like a hand out of a larger block of tissue.
-ex) fingers, loss of tadpoles tail, removal of unneeded neurons as neural circuits in the brain are wired.
-Viral infection/damage: Some cells are abnormal and could hurt the rest of the organism if they survive, such as cells with viral infections or DNA damage, or precancerous cells. 
-When a cells DNA is damaged, it will typically detect the damage and try to repair it. 
-If the damage is beyond repair, the cell will normally send itself into apoptosis, ensuring that it will not pass on its damaged DNA. 
-When cells have DNA damage but fail to undergo apoptosis, they may be on the road to cancer.
-Sometimes, pre-cancerous cells that have avoided internal apoptosis cues are detected by immune cells, which try to trigger apoptosis through an external signaling pathway. 
-EX) One example is the downregulation of p53, a tumour suppressor gene, which results in reduced apoptosis and enhanced tumour growth and development [1] and inactivation of p53, regardless of the mechanism, has been linked to many human cancers [24].  (https://jeccr.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1756-9966-30-87) 
-Temporary tasks: Cells in an adult organism may be eliminated to maintain balance  to make way for new cells or remove cells needed only for temporary tasks.
-Apoptosis also plays an essential role in the development and maintenance of a healthy immune system. 
-When B and T cells (immune cells that bind specific molecules) are first produced, theyre tested to see if they react against any of the bodys own self components. 
-Cells that do are eliminated right away by apoptosis. 
-If this process fails, self-reactive cells may be released into the body, where they can attack tissues and cause autoimmune conditions.
-And 
-When a pathogen is detected, the immune cells that recognize the pathogen divide extensively, undergoing a huge increase in numbers with the purpose of destroying the pathogen. 
-Once the pathogen is cleared from the body, the large numbers of pathogen-specific immune cells are no longer needed and must be removed by apoptosis to maintain homeostasis (balance) in the immune system.
Apoptosis and Autoimmune Diseases: https://www.mdanderson.org/cancerwise/t-cells--b-cells-and-the-immune-system.h00-159465579.html 
-Our immune system is very powerful, but its also very regulated. Its designed to prevent from attacking normal tissue. Without these features, the immune system malfunctions, can damage normal tissue and lead to autoimmune diseases. But, unfortunately, these safety mechanisms sometimes allow cancer to avoid destruction by the immune system.
Regulation of B Cell and T Cell Development: 
-Both T- and B-lymphocytes undergo developmental stages and appear to share many regulatory mechanisms. 
-For example, the early survival of lymphocyte precursors is mediated primarily by cytokines, which both regulate the numbers of progenitors and play critical roles in initiating the rearrangement of the antigen receptor genes.
-Developing lymphocytes must create unique antigen receptors by rearrangement to generate the incredible diversity characteristic of an adaptive immune response.
- A consequence of the random nature of this process is that only 1/3 of rearrangements are joined appropriately and give rise to a functional antigen receptor.
-Although several mechanisms (i.e. use of alternative antigen receptor gene loci and receptor editing) exist to allow further opportunities for successful rearrangement, the majority of lymphocytes fail to generate functional antigen receptors and are thus eliminated by programmed cell death.
-T-lymphocyte progenitors that express a functional receptor are further subjected to both positive and negative selection to ensure that a functional receptor exists while eliminating those cells with self-reactive antigen receptors, which could be dangerous due to the potential for autoimmunity (Figure 3).30 
-When the avidity of interaction of the TCR and endogenous major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules is low, T-cell progenitors fail to be positively selected and undergo apoptosis. Conversely, in self-reactive T-cells, the avidity between the TCR and MHC is too high; such T-cells are eliminated by negative selection. 
-
Aka 
-Early development (double negative (DN)1 and DN2 stages) are dependent on cytokine signaling to mediate the survival and differentiation. 
-Pre-TCR signaling promotes survival and differentiation to the double positive (DP) stage in which the functional TCR is tested for recognition of self-MHC molecules in a process known as positive selection. 
-Those DP cells that express TCRs with specificities that react too strongly to self-MHC are induced to die by negative selection. 
-Those that have been positively selected downregulate either CD4 or CD8 and become mature single positive (SP) T-cells that are competent to leave the thymus and enter the periphery
IN THE
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
Students for Fair Admissions
Petitioner
V.
President and Fellows of Harvard College Notes
Respondent
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
TABLE OF AUTHORITIES ............................................ STATEMENT OF INTEREST OF AMICUS CURIAE .. STATEMENT OF THE CASE ...........................................
SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT ..........................................
ARGUMENT ......................................................................
I.	RACE CONSIDERATIONS IN ADMISSIONS
IS NECESSARY TO BUILD A DIVERSE CLASS
CONCLUSION ...................................................................
Table of Authorities
Cases:
Grutter v. Bollinger
University of California Regents v. Bakke Hirabayashi v. United States
Korematsu v. United States
Massachusetts Board of Retirement v. Murgia
San Antonio Independent School Dist. v. Rodriguez Yick Wo v. Hopkins
Fisher v. University of Texas
LEGAL RESPONSE
The constitutional guarantee of equal protection in this case means that the Respondent, Harvard may consider a variety of admissions criteria, including race to promote a diverse student body. In crafting its admissions policies, Harvard relied on well-established Supreme Court precedent. Although the SFFA established standing to challenge Harvards policies, SFFA has failed to provide a constitutionally sufficient reason to overturn decades of precedent to eliminate any consideration of race as an admissions factor.
The process a student goes through to apply to Harvard is based on multiple standings, academic excellence, personality, race, and rigor; all of which are used to determine the likelihood of someone getting into the institution. As Harvard only accepts students with academic excellence, the other factors that come into play create a class of unique people with different life experiences and challenges, as well as culture. This policy may mean that people of other races are sometimes accepted into Harvard over Asian applicants, who account for 80 percent of the applicant pool. The institution should not be barred from any means of effectively diversifying admissions, as this benefits all parties involved. To fail at diversification would have significant effects for all colleges and universities and applicants who are applying. If race was not to be used as one of many criteria for admissions, it would mean barring more minority groups from being able to show their full potential and fair representation at Harvard.
STATEMENT OF CASE
Harvard is one of the most competitive universities in the world, with incredibly high admissions standards.
Students applying to Harvard University are expected to not only be at the top of their class academically, but also have profound work/ community engagement and sports history. While reviewing applications, Harvard University looks at all aspects of a students profile to make the admissions decision. This is done by ranking applicants based on various criteria on a 5-point scale and then voting on the application as a whole to make the decision. Harvard has chosen, along with many other institutions, to consider race in admissions for the primary reason of providing a more diverse student body and allowing more educational opportunities for a
wider spectrum of students. The Students For Fair Admissions have sued Harvard with the accusation that the universities admissions standards are racist against asian applicants, and in doing so accuse the affirmative action that the university uses as being a violation of Title VI of 1964 Civil Rights act and the 14th amendment.
The voting process is done with a 40 person panel to ensure each application is thoroughly reviewed.
SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT
In this case, the SFFA (Students For Fair Admission), seeks to dismantle over 40 years of precedent that allows colleges to use race as one of many factors in admissions decisions. Affirmative Action has been implemented into United States society as a whole because it helps to level the playing field for all citizens of the country, for example this includes being mindful of historical setbacks individuals may face and how this could affect their current standing.
Title VI of 1964 Civil Rights act ensures that individuals do not face discrimination from any program that receives Federal financial assistance. This undoubtedly applies to Harvard, as the university receives federal research funding, but it is clear that Harvards actions of using race as one of many factors in admission does not violate The Civil Rights act.
In our argument today, the respondents of Harvard v. Students for Fair Admissions, argue that Affirmative Action is not a violation of Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, but in fact is furthering the intent of the Civil Rights Act. If one is to look at past cases there are numerous precedents that legalize affirmative action and agree with Harvard's position on this case. Over the last 40 years the court has repeatedly maintained the precedent and understood the importance of affirmative action. One can note the Supreme Court twice citing Harvards admission process as a model for how other universities should conduct admissions. It has become a way that universities can consider race as part of an application that is consistent and affirming of the Constitution and federal laws. One can first see this precedent being established in Regents of The University of
California v. Bakke (1978), when justices ruled that the using race as part of an admissions decision was aligned with the Constitution. This decision was again reaffirmed in the Grutter v. Bollinger (2003) case where the court held that the Equal Protection Clause under the 14th amendment did not prohibit the use of race in admissions decisions.
The reasoning in Grutter v. Bollinger is particularly significant in our case because they came to the conclusion that because the university has a highly individualized and rigorous review of each applicant, applicants would not receive an acceptance nor a rejection solely based on their race. This same logic can be reasonably applied to Harvard's admissions process, as they review applications holistically and do not make decisions based on one aspect of the application.
Additionally, it is in not only the courts best interest to maintain 40 years of legal precedent, but dismantling affirmative action in college admissions will have severe effects on the country as a whole and the equity of college admissions.
ARGUMENT
I.RACE CONSIDERATIONS IN ADMISSIONS IS NECESSARY TO BUILD A DIVERSE CLASS
1.Harvard has one goal in mind when choosing which applicants to admit out of its extraordinary applicant pool: create an exceptional class that is diverse on many dimensions. Harvard admissions knows that having a class filled with people that have overcome different types of adversity and that come from diverse backgrounds is extremely beneficial to everyone's educational experience. Race and ethnicity is just one factor of a person's identity but it can still be an indicator of certain obstacles that one might have faced and will face in the future.
In order for Harvard to deliver on its mission of providing its students with the best education possible, it is most equitable, for all applicants, to consider race amongst many factors. Out of over 60 thousand applicants, only 2000 were accepted. Over 8 thousand had a perfect GPA and
over 34 hundred applicants had perfect SAT math scores. There is an abundance of highly qualified applicants when it comes to academic rigor which is why, when choosing the elite of the elite, admissions must take into consideration other factors: extracurriculars, athletics, recommendations, leadership, essays, awards, alumni interviews and life experience. Race can play a role in bolstering the efficacy of these factors but it is never a deciding factor itself.
The effect that the consideration of race has on admissions does not disproportionately underserved the Asian-American applicant pool. Out of the 2019 admitted applicants, 24% were Asian-American and 40% were White (European American) if race considerations were to be removed, the Asian-American acceptance rate would have been slightly higher (27% from 24%) but the White acceptance rate would have seen an increase of over double the Asian rate (48% from 40%). Furthermore, with the removal of race considerations, the African-American acceptance rate is more than halved (6% from 14%) and the Hispanic acceptance rate also takes a substantial hit (9% from 14%). The Asian and European American demographics are correlated with higher household income and net worth, whereas the African-American and Hispanic demographics are correlated with corresponding lower financial statistics. Household income is already a barrier to entry for acquiring the competitive credentials to be considered for acceptance to a school as competitive as Harvard; removing race considerations would only exacerbate this disparity further.
2.The equal protection clause underneath the 14th amendment has historically been extremely important in the decisions of many cases. It has been used in cases involving the suspect class of race in cases such as Yick Wo
v. Hopkins where the clause was invoked to strike down the unequal enforcement of a laundromat permitting law. The equal protection clause has also come into play in two cases that were notoriously overturned: Korematsu and Hirabayashi. Both of these cases were decided in spite of consideration that the matter may deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
In matters not of race, the 14th amendment is still incredibly powerful, but it is not applied under strict scrutiny as it is in matters with the suspect class of race involved. In the case of San Antonio Independent School District v.
Rodriguez, the Supreme Court did not examine Texas' public education finance system under strict scrutiny because it was not a matter concerning race. They decided that since there is no explicit right to education in the Constitution and the equal protection clause doesnt necessarily protect people of lower economic status as a class, the funding scheme for the schools was ruled constitutional. Again, in the case of Massachusetts Board of Retirement v. Murgia, another case decided using the 14th amendment but not concerning race. Murgia sues Massachusetts Board of Retirement because of a law that allowed uniformed officers to be retired at the age of 50 involuntarily regardless of physical or mental health.
This law was not put under strict scrutiny as it does not concern race and so it was decided that the law was constitutional because although it is not the most efficient means to keep a physically fit police force, it did pass the rational basis test and was deemed constitutional.
Clearly, the 14th amendment is extremely important when deciding on matters of discrimination. In matters involving race, such as the one at hand in Harvard's admission process, it is imperative that the policy at hand upholds an interest of the state while also being the most efficient means of doing so. Any unnecessary discrimination based on race is and should be decided as unconstitutional.
3.There is a long history of higher education institutions considering applicant's race in the admissions process for the purpose of promoting diversity. On June 28th, 1978, the case of University of California Regents v. Bakke was decided. The university had a special admissions program for its medical school in which 16 out of 100 applicants would be accepted under and the main requirements of this program were if the applicant is a racial minority or significantly financially disadvantaged; since this is a policy concerning race, and must be put under strict scrutiny, the main holding was that although The Medical School of the University of California at Davis special admissions program upheld a compelling interest to the state in the form of increasing academic diversity, a race quota of 16% was not the least restrictive means of doing so.
On June 23rd, 2003, the case of Grutter v. Bollinger was decided. The University of Michigan Law School admission policies were also held under strict scrutiny by the Supreme Court. The main difference between Grutter and Bakke is that, in Bakke, the admission policy had a race
quota while in Grutter the admission policy in question had no specific quota. The University of Michigan Law School admissions policy does consider race, but not as a deciding factor on its own; this was ruled to be constitutional and not in violation of the 14th amendment or Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. The admission policy that includes race but not as a quota was ruled under strict scrutiny to uphold a compelling interest in the state while also being narrowly tailored enough to avoid undue harm to nonminority applicants.
Again on June 24th, 2013, another case involving race in admission policy was decided. In the case of Fisher
v. University of Texas, theyve had a policy of admitting all in-state applicants that are in the top 10% of their highschool class since 1997, they later revised this to also include race considerations for the other 90% of in-state applicants. The University of Texas was sued for this policy under claims that it violated the 14th amendment. The admission policy was held under strict scrutiny, and just like The University of Michigan's admission policy, since there is no quota, the policy passed strict scrutiny as it upholds state interest in providing a diverse learning environment while being narrowly tailored to do so.
Harvard's admissions process, with regards to how it incorporates race, is very similar to that of The University of Michigan and Texas in that it does not implore a strict race quota but does make use of race in the decision making process as one of many factors in order to create a learning space with higher diversity. Harvard's policy makes use of race solely to uphold the state's interest in a diverse learning experience while being narrowly tailored to have a minimum impact on the equity of admissions.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, the court should affirm the precedents and Harvard Universitys admissions protocols.
Respectfully Submitted, Luisa Grutz-Bianchi
Sndor Jonas Arlie RichardsOn Crime
In this paper, I will be revealing the law of nature[1] that separates all of us as humans. Through observing humans and their behaviors, I have determined that humanity is divided into two classes: the extraordinary and the ordinary. Both of these classifications can help us understand an individuals contributions to society and the liberties -- or lack thereof -- that they may partake in. The role of an ordinary person is to participate in societys monotonous routine and adhere to social expectations. Whereas extraordinary individuals are innovators, people of the future[2] who make new and significant contributions to society. Because of their position, they have the right to impose upon others if the result is for the progress and well-being of society[3].
Regardless of your stance about how our society functions, it is quite apparent that there is a general understanding of an unspoken social contract that we adhere to. This is how society is able to flow and function properly -- that is, only if everyone participates. What truly defines the two subdivisions: Is one's capacity or incapacity to transcend this social contract. Those who are bound to this social contract are people of the ordinary category. The primary function of the ordinary is solely for the reproduction of the species[4]. Ordinary people can be generally identified as those who are: conservative by nature, well-behaved, who live in obedience and like being obedient (286). They experience no shame in this as they are obligated (286) to be obedient[5], for it is their destiny to interact with society in this way. On the other hand, those who are born as extraordinary, as I have defined previously, are born with a gift or a talent of uttering a new word in their milieu (286). This category consists of those who break the law, people who are disrupters, destroyers, and innovators[6]. The mere existence of extraordinary people violates the societal contract. Their predisposition grants them the right to crime; for example, think about the trailblazers of humanity[7], people like Newton and Kepler. If the only way for their discoveries to be made known to the world required the sacrifice of the lives of one, ten, a hundred, etc., then Newton or Kepler had the right to eliminate those people if it resulted in their discoveries being known to all of humanity[8]. You see, they were on the precipice of a discovery that would alter the lives of humanity. This potential discovery is what gave them the right to sacrifice all of those lives as long as it was for the benefit of the greater good[9]. This is not to say that all extraordinary people absolutely must commit these outrageous deeds or break the law[10], they simply have the right -- not the official right, but rather the right to permit his consciousness to overstep these obstacles[11]. If we look across history, the influential people of our past, beginning with the ancients, continuing with Lycurgus, the Solons, Mohammeds, Napoleons, and so forth (285), all of them are criminals. As I have discussed in previous publications, it is just by the virtue of the fact that in propagating new laws, they were at the same time destroying the old laws viewed as sacred by society and handed down by their fathers (285). 
Through much deliberation, I have determined that both of these classes are essential and possess the equal right to exist[12]. One class reproduces and keeps society functioning, and the other contributes to its progress. Although the rights of the extraordinary may be concerning to some people, the majority of humanity does not acknowledge their right to crime[13]. Our conservative systems punish and hang these men with absolute justification[14] and conviction that they are above the extraordinary. There is also the concern of one pretending to be the other. Many ordinary men will attempt to convince themselves and others that they are of the extraordinary[15], but it is impossible to transcend the line between the two. These men never get very far[16]. There are very few men born into the extraordinary and very few are capable of uttering something new so it is quite difficult to pose as the other. I am aware that these categories are quite arbitrary and can be divided into many subcategories[17], but this essential distinction between the extraordinary and ordinary is a result of a law of nature[18]. 
------------------------------------------------------------
[1] It consists precisely in the view that by the laws of nature, people are divided in general into two categories (286)
[2] The first category always comprises of men of the present; the second, men of the future (287).
[3] They require the destruction of the present order in the name of something better (286).
[4] The lower category (ordinary), that is, so to speak, material serving solely for the purpose of reproducing the species (286)
[5] In my opinion, theyre even obligated to be obedient because thats their destiny, and theres nothing humiliating about it for them (286)
[6] The second category consists of people who break the law, destroyers or, judging by their abilities, are predisposed to be so (286).
[7] I develop the idea in my article, that all people at least the lawgivers and trailblazers of humanity (285)
[8] if the discoveries of Kepler and Newton could in no way have become known to people other than through [...] (285)
[9] They require the destruction of the present order in the name of something better (286).
[10] I dont insist in any way that extraordinary people absolutely must and are always obligated to commit all sorts of outrages (285)
[11] I merely imply that the extraordinary man has the right that is, not the official right, but he himself has the right to permit his conscience to overstep (285)
[12] Both have an equal right to exist (287)
[13] However, there is no cause for alarm: the mass of humanity hardly recognizes this right (286)
[14] It punishes these men or hangs them (more or less), and does so with absolute justification, fulfilling its conservative function (286)
[15] an extremely large number of them like to imagine themselves advanced people, destroyers, and aspire to utter a new word (288)
[16] you having nothing to worry about, because these people never get very far (288)
[17] Regarding my division of people into ordinary and extraordinary, I agree that its somewhat arbitrary, but Im not insisting on exact numbers (286).
[18] Only one thing is clear: the order that controls the human births, all these categories and subdivisions, must be extremely closely and accurately determined by some law of nature (288).The goings-on in St. Petersburg
Periodical Discourse
Enzo Dougherty Editor-in-Chief
VOL. 42	ST. PETERSBURG, TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 1866
On Crime: The nature of the criminal mind
Greetings,	Periodical Discourses readers. I am a current philosopher, and recently studied law at St. Petersburg University. I am writing this article because after much thought and deliberate consideration, I have come to a conclusion about a topic that I believe may be of great importance to the general public, and that I have an obligation to share.
The idea that I have arrived upon regards the existence of and distinction between two groups of people, and each groups relationship with crime. It has taken all of my life so far to finally realize that there are two groups of people in the world: the ordinary, and the extraordinary.
This distinction is more fundamental than any aspects of a person's personality, their financial status or race; but rather a persons purpose. Ordinary people are, by definition, ordinary. This group of ordinary people are merely material serving solely for the purpose of reproducing the species.1 These people are incapable of generating any genuinely new ideas or concepts; all their ideas are just repetition of others. This group consists of conservative people by nature, well-behaved, who live in obedience and like being obedient. They arent humiliated or embarrassed by being obedient because this is simply their predestined fate.2 The laws and rules of society are created for this group of people to dutifully follow.
In stark contrast, there is a group of select individuals that stand out. I have chosen to call these people extraordinary. Extraordinary people serve a greater purpose in life, and as such are much more impactful than ordinary people. Because of this greater purpose, extraordinary people are permitted or even almost obligated in some cases to eliminate any obstacles that prevent them from achieving this purpose. They are
permitted to commit crimes as long as the crimes are for the greater good.
Since we can define crime as a new idea or a transgression of existing ideas and laws, the extraordinary people of the past were criminals, just by virtue of the fact that in propagating new laws, they were at the same time destroying the old laws viewed as sacred by society and handed down by their fathers.3 In a word, I conclude that everyone, not only the great people, but even those who stand out just slightly from the everyday rut, that is, those who are even marginally capable of uttering some new word, must, by their nature, necessarily be criminals.4
I acknowledge that this idea is revolutionary and may not entirely make sense initially, however to understand it fully we can examine past extraordinary	people. However, all we have to do is look at great historical figures of the past for confirmation of this idea.
For example, military leaders Napoleon Bonaparte and Julius Caesar. Both leaders committed numerous crimes to benefit their respective societies. To fully grasp the scope of extraordinary people, imagine for a moment that about ten people or so stood as obstacles to the dissemination of the incredible works and knowledge of Isaac Newton or Johannes Kepler. In this case, it would be perfectly just or even obligatory, for Kepler or Newton to eliminate these obstacles in any way necessary so that they could share their knowledge with the rest of humanity, for the betterment of humankind.
However, despite the fact that extraordinary people are permitted to step over the boundaries defined by law in order to benefit the greater good, there are limitations to this notion. This concept does not extend so far as to allow an extraordinary person such as Newton to rob and kill any person he chooses to.
I urge you to understand that while this concept may sound problematic, ordinary people must not inhibit in any way the aspirations and work of
the extraordinary folk. Restricting the autonomy of these individuals instead of leaving them unbound to pursue and fulfill their aspirations will have severe consequences. More than any benefit, far worse are the potential consequences that would arise from a lack of extraordinary	people, stagnation of society, and a lack of innovation. I leave the reader with this idea in the hope that they have learned something new, and understand better the ways of society.
Sincerely, R.R.
Special feature: porfiry petrovich
Greetings, readers and good citizens of St. Petersburg. For those who do not already know me, my name is Porfiry Petrovich, and I'm the examining magistrate at the St. Petersburg police station.
I am writing to you today about an intriguing paper I read recently. by a law student about the concept of the existence of superior members of society. While I admire the literary effort that went into crafting the article in question, and the content and ideas outlined in this article are fascinating, I disagree with these ideas,1 and consider it of great importance that I share the dangers of these ideas with the public. The material in the article in question has the potential to cause chaos in society, and I feel I must address this before it gets out of hand.
The article in question, titled On Crime, was recently published in Weekly Discourses. The article was submitted anonymously but I have reason to believe that the author is one Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov, who incidentally the St. Petersburg Police Department is currently a suspect in the murder of Alyona and Lizaveta Ivanovna. The author of the paper, poses the idea that there are two types of people in the world, those who are ordinary and those who are extraordinary.
The ordinary person is one who simply serves as reproductive material to sustain the human race, while the extraordinary one serves a greater purpose in life, and is permitted to commit crimes if they help complete an end goal. The article has to do with the extraordinary category, and alarmingly, the author sanctions bloodshed as a matter of conscience,2 and claims the extraordinary people have a so-called right to crime.
Let us consider for a moment that there are indeed these two categories of people, as described in the article. The main issue I have with this notion is that the distinction between these two categories seems somewhat arbitrary. Apart from perspective gained in retrospect, there is no way to immediately distinguish an ordinary person from an extraordinary one. The question that concerns me is this: how does one distinguish the extraordinary people from the ordinary ones?.3 This may not sound like a serious issue, however the author states that extraordinary people are permitted - and in some cases obligated - to commit crimes for the greater good. The issue is the disaster that would happen if some confusion results and one of the ordinary category imagines that he belongs to the other one, and begins to eliminate all obstacles4 under the false impression that they were fulfilling some greater purpose.
Perhaps a potential solution is to provide a sort of special clothing or identifying mark for the extraordinary people to wear so that they can be differentiated from the ordinary people.
If this theory is correct, and there are extraordinary people, then this is concerning for society, because there are people who could simply overstep the rules sometimes under an erroneous impression that they are doing it for the greater good
This article begs the question, is it really a good idea to go through life assuming that you can harm other people for the greater good for a potentially unsubstantiated cause?
Sincerely,
Porfiry Petrovich
TRAGIC CARRIAGE ACCIDENT LEAVES 1 DEAD
		
Marmeladov died sunday evening, after being run over by a carriage.
It is with a heavy heart that I must announce the death of my husband, Semyn Zakhrovich Marmeladov. Two nights ago, Semyn was drinking as he often did. After attempting to cross the street, he fell underneath the wheels of a passing carriage that was drawn by two horses. He was critically injured, but passed away at our home, among family and friends.
I will be honest, I do not entirely resent his passing. Marmeladovs constant drinking used up much of the little money we managed to make, and dragged us farther down the path of poverty. He was rarely at home to be with the children, and when he was he was drunk and incoherent. He used what little money we did have on alcohol. At least this way our family will not lose as much money.1
While he didnt take care of our children and wasted away our meager earnings in taverns, and he split our family apart, he was a kind man, and did not do these things mean-spiritedly.
However, all this doesnt mean much now that he has passed, and we are left to try and find a new path in life.
Despite contributing to our family's hardship, we will miss him sometimes, and I hope that he has moved on to a more peaceful place.
-	Katerina Ivanovna
Weekly Puzzle
What bridge is this? And more
Wanted for questioning
Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov Raskolnikov. Suspected of murdering of Alyona and Lizaveta Ivanovna.1 If you see this man or have any information regarding him or his whereabouts, contact Porfiry Petrovich immediately, at St. Petersburg Police Station.
OPINION
Dmtry Prokfich Razumkhin:
The income disparity gap is growing. Heres how you can help.
As a resident of St. Petersburg, I am deeply concerned by the increasing wealth disparity in our city. The impoverished residents of the city barely have enough food to eat or clothes to stay warm, while the wealthy enjoy a life of privilege and excess.
The issue is that the wealth disparity does not only affect the poor, but also the wealthy. Such a large wealth disparity means the poor struggle to find jobs. In fact, civil servant Marmeladovs fifteen year old daughter was forced to become a prostitute in order to help support the family. 1
Creating more opportunities for the poor, and helping them integrate into higher society has benefits for everyone, because it will help increase the economy of the city. As a society, we cannot afford to ignore this problem of income disparity any longer.
What can you do to help? We urge readers with money to spare to contribute to the St. Petersburg food bank, either by donating food items, clothing, or even financial donations.
In pursuit of a more just and equitable society, we must strive to lift one another up, and our city will be better for it.
CLIPPINGS
Footnotes
On Crime
-  1 Page 286: ...material serving solely for the purpose of reproducing the species
-2 Page 286: speaking in general, consists of conservative people by nature, well-behaved, who live in obedience and like being obedientIn my opinion, theyre even obligated to be obedient because thats their destiny, and theres nothing humiliating about it for them.
-3 Page 285: I develop the idea in my article, that all people at least the lawgivers and trailblazers
of humanity, beginning with the ancients, continuing with Lycurgus, the Solons, Mohammeds, Napoleons, and so forth each and every one of them, were criminals, just by virtue of the fact that in propagating new laws, they were at the same time destroying the old laws viewed as sacred by society and handed down by their fathers.
-4 Page 285: In a word, I conclude that everyone, not only the great people, but even those who
stand out just slightly from the everyday rut, that is, those who are even marginally capable of uttering some new word, must, by their nature, necessarily be criminals-more or less, it goes without saying
-	1 Page 497-498
Porrys Response
-2 Page 289: sanctions bloodshed as a matter of conscience and, excuse me for saying so, even with such fanaticism
-3 Page 287: But tell me this: how does one distinguish the extraordinary people from the ordinary
ones? Are there some special signs at birth? I have in mind that greater accuracy is needed, so to speak, more external distinctness. Excuse the natural discomfort of a practical and well-intentioned man, but might it be possible to arrange for them to wear special clothing or to bear some mark?
-4 Page 287: Because, youll agree, if some confusion results and one of the ordinary category
imagines that he belongs to the other one, and begins to eliminate all obstacles, as you expressed it so fortuitously, well then
Marmeladovs Obituary
-1 Page 204: Why should there be any compensation? He was drunk and wound up under the
horses hooves! What sort of income? Theres no income from him, only torment. That drunkard spent it all on drinks. He robbed us and went off to the tavern with the money. Hes wasted their lives and mine in a tavern! Thank God hes dying! Well lose less!
Wanted Poster
-1 Page 452: He clearly recalled Lizavetas expression as he approached her with his axe and she
retreated from him toward the wall, holding up her hand, childlike fear in her face.
-1 Page 16
Razumhikin Op-EdOpinion of the Court
Supreme Court of the United States
_________
No. 01-001
_________
AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION, AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION OF ILLINOIS, CHICAGO ALLIANCE AGAINST SEXUAL EXPLOITATION, SEX WORKERS OUTREACH PROJECT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS STATE PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP, INC., AND MUJERES LATINAS EN ACCIN, Petitioners, v. CLEARVIEW AI.
ON WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO
THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT 
[Jan 23, 2023]
Justices Bulajewski, Hosein, Mollman, and Duplessis delivered the opinion of the court.
      Integral to the collective conscience of our nation is a right to the bodily autonomy and privacy of ones person. In this digital age, the internet and Artificial Intelligence raise a multitude of questions around the right to privacy online. Primarily, what information should reasonably be collected and at what level of detail. The petitioners claim that Clearview AIs actions are unconstitutional on the basis of the First, Fourth, and Fourteenth Amendments. The respondent counters that the curtailing of their company would be in violation of the First Amendment, but we find that the rights of the people abridged by the operations of Clearview AI take precedence over the First Amendment rights of data collection. As seen in cases such as Citizens United and Katz, there is a model set that acknowledges the First Amendment rights of corporations while enforcing the idea that individuals have the right to privacy both inside and outside the home, as long as that privacy is seen as reasonable by society. In examining Clearview AIs practices around consent to use photographs for biometric data gathering and the process of deleting said photos, we find that respondent is in violation of the First, Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments. 
      Clearview AIs operations within the state of Illinois are in clear violation of the Biometric Information Privacy Act, or BIPA. This act expressly prohibits private entities from collecting biometric identifiers from persons without not only notifying the subject or a legally authorized representative of the fact that it is being collected, the purpose of this collection, length of time it will be stored and used, but also receiving written consent from the subject or legally authorized representative. 
   As such, Clearview AIs operations as an entity that collects said biometric identifiers from the internet without receiving consent or even notifying the subjects are directly in violation of BIPA. Clearview AIs technology uses facial geometry, or faceprints, to identify individual faces among a vast collection of photos from across the internet. BIPA explicitly defines a scan of hand or face geometry as a biometric identifier, rendering Clearview AIs operations and data collection to be explicitly in violation of Illinois state law.
      However, not only does Clearview AI violate BIPA, but it is in direct opposition of various Amendments within the Constitution. 
   Firstly, Clearview AIs technology has the potential to violate  the Fourteenth Amendment. While this specific occurrence has not been documented and brought to the court, where the injury threatened by an unconstitutional statute is present and real before the statute is to be effective, and will become irreparable if relief be postponed to that time, a suit to restrain future enforcement of that statute is not premature (Pierce v. Society of Sisters).
AI technology in general has a definitive history of racial bias. Examples of this include the accuracy of an AIs facial recognition technology being significantly less for a person of color than that of a white person, being more likely to misidentify the former than the latter. 
      Since Clearview AI is utilized by law enforcement across the country, false recognition could have potentially devastating effects on an individual who is falsely implicated in a crime. Since AIs facial recognition skills are more adept at distinguishing between white people, this would disproportionately affect people of color.
     The injury of being falsely implicated in a crime can reasonably and definitely be considered irreparable. As such, Clearview AIs operations are in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
      Although First Amendment rights extend to corporations (Citizens United v. FEC) , because Clearview AI is violating or is at risk of violating a multitude of rights for individuals, these rights must take precedence. 
    In terms of consent, the test outlined in Katz v. United States is most appropriate. Katz states that the Fourth Amendment protects people, not places. What a person knowingly exposes to the public, even in his own home or office, is not a subject of Fourth Amendment protection. [...] But what he seeks to preserve as private, even in an area accessible to the public, may be constitutionally protected (Katz v. United States). While images shared online are meant to be public, it is reasonable for a person to expect that their biometric data should be kept private. As seen in Katz, this expectation applies to images gathered in public spheres as well as in private spaces such as the home. Clearview AI must gain consent to use these images in their algorithm and by not doing so, are in violation of the Fourth Amendment. 
     We must then address the issue of Clearview AIs maintenance and deletion of photos. Returning to Katz, we find that a person must have exhibited an actual (subjective) expectation of privacy and, second, that the expectation be one that society is prepared to recognize as reasonable (Katz v. United States). In the issue of removing photos that have been deleted from social media accounts, individuals have the expectation that those photos would be removed across databases and would expect privacy from those photos continuing to be used by third party companies. Likewise, society recognizes that this is a reasonable expectation of the act of deleting a photograph. 
       This reasoning applies to the privatization of accounts as well. Clearview AI does not collect photos from private accounts so it is reasonable for both individuals and society as a whole to expect that someone privatizing an account should expect the photos on that account to be removed from the public sphere and Clearview AI by extension.
    Clearview AI asserts that the Biometric Information Privacy Act (BIPA) infringes on the company's right to gather and distribute information beneath the First Amendment. In contrast, BIPA serves as a protective measure for the First Amendment rights of those subject to Clearview AIs intrusive faceprints. The act anticipates the consequences of a wide dissemination of biometric data by enacting that a private entity must, (1) informs the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative in writing that a biometric identifier or biometric information is being collected or stored; (2) informs the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative in writing of the specific purpose and length of term for which a biometric identifier or biometric information is being collected, stored, and used (BIPA, 740 ILCS 14/15). When a person is stripped of their anonymity, they no longer have the freedom to associate through participating in lawful activities, such as protests. Locations of gathering can be tracked through photos and subsequently converted to faceprints. BIPA does not prevent Clearview AI from collecting images. However, the act prevents the company from compositing images without the consent of the photographed. Thus, BIPA supports the First Amendment right of collecting data, yet not the companys practices which preclude an individuals control of their image and identity.
      Cases Reno v. ACLU, Silverman v. United States, and Kyllo v. United States elucidate how the First Amendment rights of the individual conforms to the advent of the internet and heightened use of technology. Reno recognizes the internets expanse and in conjunction with Silverman and Kyllo determines whether certain technology expands beyond what a human has the right to do within the bounds of the First Amendment. Respondent claims that a human can emulate the processes of Clearviews AI. Through their argument, Clearview hopes to bypass BIPA and claim their product is comparable to an image a human could collage and thus permissible.  
      This poses the question- what is the feasible limit of a humans capability to mimic a biometric identifier? A human can aggregate photographs. A human can access the vast stores of photos on the internet to use as they see fit. A human cannot reasonably construct an algorithm comprised of complex mathematical formulas and vectors at a scale similar to Clearview AIs algorithm. An algorithm that so intently relies on the facial geometry of an individual that in the process strips oneself of autonomy and anonymity. Clearview AIs product promises accuracy of facial matching from images pulled from the internet through its programming. Whether the company lives up to its claims of accuracy is inconclusive due to the fact that the percentage of false matches is confidential. However, the fact still remains that the purview of Clearview AIs reach extends beyond what an individual can create, and in the process intercedes with both the First and the Fourth Amendment. The technology at hand, Clearview AI, expands beyond the skillset of a human and thus is not subject to the same level of First Amendment scrutiny. It is true that a company can create something a human cannot, but not if the technology invades the privacy and sanctity of ones person (Fourth Amendment). 
      As extrapolated through the cases of Eisenstadt v. Baird, Myers v. United States, and Griswold v. Connecticut, every individual has an inextricable right to bodily autonomy and dignity through the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Clearview AI threatens this security as in a world of faceprints, the sole way of maintaining privacy would be to cover ones face. However, an individual has a right to govern their own body as secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.       
      Clearview AI has stated that the effects of reversing this decision would devastate internet businesses. This does not hold up as Clearview AI can simply gain consent from individuals before using their photos and enact a deletion policy if they wish to continue operating. Other companies must follow suit, and adopting these practices will in no way severely destroy companies. This is the best judgment for both the integrity of the judicial system and the protection of this nations citizens. 
      Through collection of biometric data from the general public, Clearview AI is found to be in violation of not only Illinois state law, but also the First, Fourth, and Fourteenth Amendments of the Constitution. The processes and operations of Clearview AI cannot be considered constitutional, and are unlawful. To allow Clearview AIs operations to continue would be to potentially jeopardize and fundamentally alter the very notion of privacy within the American way of life, while abridging the rights that are clearly provided within the Constitution. 
The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit is thus, reversed.
Cases:
Eisenstadt v. Baird, 
405 U.S. 438 (1972)
Griswold v. Connecticut, 
381 U.S. 479 (1965)
Katz v. United States,
389 U.S. 347 (1967)
Kyllo v. United States
533 U.S. 27 (2001)
Myers v. United States, 
272 U.S. 52 (1926)
Reno v. ACLU,
521 U.S. 844 (1997)
Silverman v. United States
365 U.S. 505 (1961)
Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 
268 U.S. 510 (1925)
Alexandre Lipson
Mari OMeara
English 4
23 November 2022
Tragedy Space: a Function Mapping Four Literary Dimensions to the Quality of a Tragedy
	A good tragedy is like a puzzle that the audience must solve, deriving pleasure by doing so. Aristotle claims that the exercise of any capacity is pleasurable. The practice of cognition, engages and satisfies the desire to exercise our distinctively human power of understanding, and is therefore pleasurable (Heath qtd. in Aristotle xiii). Aside from providing pleasure, the main goal of tragedy is to provide catharsis for the audience (Heath qtd. in Aristotle xxxvii). Catharsis is the purging of emotions like pity and fear via experiencing these emotions in the controlled environment of tragedy. The level of catharsis can be used as a proxy measurement for the quality of a tragedy. There exist at least five constants that are present in all Greek tragedies. A tragic plot must be complete: having a beginning, a middle, and an end. The actions within the plot must also be universal. Universality requires the chain of events to be plausible, ones that would be likely in any similar circumstance. According to Aristotle, universal plots contain, the kind of thing that would happen (Aristotle 16). The events in a plot must also be connected, equivalent to unified. Each event must induce the conditions for the next event to occur. Plots must also be complex, meaning that they must contain anagnorisis or peripeteia, which are the Greek terms for recognition and reversal respectively. Tragedy Space is a method for qualifying tragedies. Provided that a tragedy contains the baseline elements, the position of a story in Tragedy Space determines how cathartic and therefore tragic it is. The multi-dimensional Tragedy Space is not intended to be a visual tool. Instead, it provides a spatial framework for comparing four principal measurements of tragedy. The Tragedy Space is defined by the four following dimensions which each measure certain aspects of tragedy. First, the tragic hero has a moral alignment between wicked and virtuous, which will inform how the audience feels when the character experiences a change in fortune. Sometimes characters may have multiple changes in fate, so the Tragedy Space only concerns the ultimate peripeteia direction. Aristotle notes that a morally neutral character going to bad fortune is the most tragic combination (Aristotle 21). Conflictingly, from the introductory analysis of Poetics, a, moderately virtuous person, following the same reversal direction will provide the best tragic plot (Heath qtd. in Aristotle xxxiv). So the tragic hero may be more than morally neutral. Thus, only a slightly virtuous hero fits in the moral interstice between neutral and moderate virtue. Another discrete dimension factors in whether or not anagnorisis occurs before the actualizing of the tragic error, which is termed, hamartia action. Aristotle figures that recognition before the fatal act is best (Aristotle 23). The consequence of early recognition is that the fatal fall to bad fortune will be stopped. As summarized in the analysis of Poetics, The best kind [of tragic plot] is precisely one in which a change to bad fortune is imminent but does not occur (Heath qtd. in Aristotle xxxiv). The last dimension is concerned with the affected parties of the hamartia action. Tragedy is best when the hubris of a tragic hero harms those with whom the hero has a close relationship. The Greek term for these persons is, philoi, all those to whom one is bound by ties of mutual obligation (Heath qtd. in Aristotle xxxiii). These close bonds establish a greater emotional stake, augmenting any pity and therefore catharsis that the audience experiences. The tragedy of Oedipus the King has the optimal tragedy structure according to the dimensions of Tragedy Space.
Oedipus the King upholds all five constants of tragedy. The plot is complete because there exists a beginning and an end, and therefore a middle. First, Apollo prophesized to Jocasta and Laius that they would have a son who would wed his mother and kill his father. Last, Oedipus relinquishes the title of king to his brother-in-law, Creon, and leaves Thebes. All other events are in the middle. The plot is universal because Oedipus acts as one would expect a character in his situation would. With the understanding that Oedipus is oblivious to whom his parents are, his actions are seen as reasonable (Heath qtd. in Aristotle l). To exhaustively prove that the plot is entirely unified requires the examination of all its events. Instead, the focus will be set solely on the famine and plague that blights Thebes at the start of the story. This conflict is unified because, according to the ancient Greeks, corrupt rulers lead to a corrupted land. This concept is expressed in Poetics, In Greek religious thought, it was very dangerous for a city to harbor polluted persons; they could bring down disaster on the whole community (Heath qtd. in Aristotle li). Thus the conflict is motivated by the fact that the married king and queen are mother and son. The plot is complex as there is peripeteia, when the messenger informs Oedipus that his father was Liaus, which provides Oedipus with anagnorisis that he has fulfilled Apollos prophecy. The plot of Oedipus the King contains all five core elements of tragedy, and is therefore eligible to be measured in Tragedy Space.
In terms of the two dimensions of character virtue and peripeteia direction, Oedipus is moderately virtuous and ultimately experiences a change to bad fortune. Oedipus is perceived as extremely virtuous by his subjects. The priest that introduces Oedipus proclaims, You cannot equal the gods, [...] But we do rate you first of men (Sophocles 161). As the first of all men, Oedipus must be very virtuous. Yet, Oedipus also has hubris, believing that he holds the same power as the gods. He claims that he will grant his peoples prayers, You pray to the gods? Let me grant your prayers (Sophocles 171). Oedipus lack of humility diminishes his moral standing to merely being moderately virtuous. In his Nicomachean Ethics, Aristotle defines virtue as good conduct that exists between extremes of behavior. Virtue [...] is defined as a mean between two extremes of excess and defect in regard to a feeling or action (Aristotles Ethics). In the case of confidence and pride, Oedipus excess hubris detracts from virtuousness. In addition, from the plot, it is self-evident that Oedipus peripeteia direction is going to bad fortune. The combination of a moderately virtuous hero falling to bad fortune places Oedipus the King in the most tragic location in the respective dimensions.
Oedipus has his anagnorisis as a result of the plots peripeteia, yet both of these events occur after the hamartia action. Oedipus does not realize that he has been following Apollos prophecy until after he slew his father and wedded his mother. Instead, the tragic heros anagnorisis is achieved during the peripeteia, when the messenger apprises Oedipus of the fact that, Polybus was nothing to [him] (Sophocles 218). Given that Polybus is not Oedipus father, Apollos prophecy may be true. Aristotle notes that the moment of peripeteia is most opportune when it coincides with reversal when he writes: Recognition is best when it occurs simultaneously with a reversal, like the one in the Oedipus (Aristotle 19). Aristotle also notes that anagnorisis is best when effectively unified and universalized, The best recognition of all is that which arises out of the actual course of events, where the emotional impact is achieved through events that are probable, as in Sophocles' Oedipus (Aristotle 27). The anagnorisis is effectively set up by the peripeteia. In this circumstance, even though the anagnorisis is unified and concurrent with peripeteia, it still takes place after the hamartia action. For this reason, the plot of Oedipus the King does not adhere to the most tragic form on the anagnorisis axis.
Oedipus hamartia action affects very close philoi. Oedipus harms his parents, a prime example of philos, through acts of incest and murder. In this case, Oedipus mother is also his spouse, another close philos. A messenger summarizes the potent dual philos by saying, [Jocasta] brought forth husband by her husband, children by her own child, an infamous double bond (Sophocles 236). Oedipuss anagnorisis of the truth about his mother is immediately followed by his nemesis. Oedipus also, as the last living parent, abandons his daughters. Children are a more intimate philoi than parents or spouses, so any harm that befalls them creates a more potent catharsis. The multifarious categories of afflicted philoi are the unique feature that makes Oedipus the King maximally tragic on the Tragedy Space dimension of familial harm.
The Tragedy Space is a function that takes a tragedys components as an input and returns the quality of a tragedy as an output. The definition of a mathematical function requires that any single input may only have one output. This applies to Tragedy Space, any plot will have one valuation of tragicness. When such a function as Tragedy Space is defined, its inverse can also be of use. One example is the inverse Hessian matrix, which is used in the Newton-Raphson iterative minimization method. Starting with the quality of a tragedy, Tragedy Space can inform an author about the necessary combination of features from each dimension required to construct a tragedy of the given quality or desired level of catharsis. The inverse of the properly-mapped Tragedy Space function is not injective, it allows for one quality of tragedy to map many different combinations of tragic elements. In practice, this means that an author who wishes to write a plot that provides a certain level of catharsis will have some choice in the mix of tragic elements that they must employ. Furthermore, when using the mathematical concept of space to interface with literature, the same tools available to the mathematician can be found in the hands of the tragedy poet. The most useful skill that comes from differential calculus is the ability to optimize. Optimization is the process of finding the maximum or minimum values of a function with respect to a constraint. If the authors of tragedy seek to maximize the valuation of their tragedy, they can employ the same techniques found in math, such as Lagrange multipliers, to determine what tragic components would make the plot the most tragic. There are many mathematical techniques with functional equivalents in literature.Works Cited
Aristotle. Poetics. Translated by Malcolm Heath. Penguin Books, 1996.
Aristotle's Ethics. Philosophy.lander.edu,
https://philosophy.lander.edu/ethics/aristotle1.html. 
Sophocles. The Three Theban Plays: Antigone, Oedipus the King, Oedipus at Colonus.
Translated by Robert Fagles. Penguin Books, 1984. 159-251.

Alain Mabanckous 2015 novel Black Moses, or originally Little Pepper, tells a picaresque story of Tokumisa Nzambe po Mose yamoyindo abotami namboka ya Bakoko, mostly known to others as simply Moses. Moses tale, beginning in an orphanage and ending in prison, takes the reader on a tour of the cultural and political zeitgeist of late 1960s Central Africa, specifically of post-colonialism and the rise of communism. Moses character and journey through life serve as a metaphor for the sociopolitical climate in the country, as his relationships to religion and identity become analogous to that of the Peoples Republic of Congo.
Moses childhood as an orphan leaves him with limited parental figures. Those he does have, the orphanages Papa Moupelo and Pointe-Noires Maman Fiat 500, are both removed from his life by authority figures such as the director of the orphanage and the mayor of Pointe-Noire, respectively. Additionally, both of these figures provide him with a limited connection to religion that he does have, and are removed by figureheads who represent communism and the new political era of the Congo. In practice, Marxism heavily discourages religion, as it provides a distraction from the class consciousness that prerequisites a communist revolution. The significance of this lies in the forceful severance of the connection to religion that the people of the Congo were so familiar with by the new communist political movement thats taken hold in the country. Similarly, Moses religious connections have been expunged from his life by figures with strong ties to both politics and communism.
Moses is not only bereft of a traditional familial structure but also of an ethnic identity. The cultural norms in the Congo heavily emphasize ethnic identities, and theyre frequently cited when explaining the behavior or opinions of a wide variety of characters. Moses, however, has no personal cultural norm, instead borrowing from a variety of ethnic customs, especially of those surrounding him. He eats cat meat, adopted from the Bemb and Tk ethnicities, knows the dance of the Pygmies from Zaire, and has a long name as is common in Zaire. Just like Moses, the country of the Congo has a rich and diverse ethnic makeup of a variety of cultures from around the region, in that the general population of the country has an understanding of what is characteristic of each ethnic group. We can conclude that both Moses and the Congo are amalgamations of a complex cultural makeup.
Moses finds various replications of family throughout his life, not only in the twins gang in Pointe-Noire but also in Maman Fiat 500 and her girls. He spends most of his early life under the aegis of another group, and most of his day-to-day activity centered around helping to support it. He does this through hunting and thieving for the twins and small errands for Maman Fiat 500. This proceeds until Maman Fiat 500 is taken from him, leaving him effectively alone in the world. After this occurs, he develops amnesia and begins to feel lost in himself and his identity, even more so than before. The Congo has been under French control for nearly a century, and now that its a free state, its struggling under post-colonialism to forge an individual identity. This leads us to believe that Moses story is a reflection of this internal turmoil, which in him, results in amnesia and neurological disorders.
Religion serves an overarching theme throughout the novel, especially at the beginning. At the orphanage and under Papa Moupelos counsel, religion is very important to Moses, and is a major focus of his internal thoughts, specifically about his own identity. The anti-religious themes of the government are stated early on in the novel, and the name of the main character, which also serves as the title, has religious connotations. Religion is a heavy theme throughout the novel. Alain Mabanckou tells a larger story with Moses as a literary surrogate for the Congo, creating a depiction of the youth of its independence through the novels main character. Alain Mabanckous usage of Moses as a literary representation of the Congo provides emphasis on the role that religion plays in the narrative of this new and independent country.
Sarah Epelbaum-Vorobiova
Mari OMeara
E400
27 April 2023
Xantippe
This man that now lays in this casket made of sacred wood from our own hills, has cursed our land with his presence, bringing with him destruction and pain. If you dont believe me, let me speak and you will see. When I was young, I lived in peace with the land. I called out to the trees one by one as if they were my brothers. The trees have magic properties, and only tell the truth when I seek for answers.[1] I met a beautiful woman by the river and, like my father and grandfather, I planted the land, which in turn gave me its treasures.[2] Thus I lived, until one day I saw smoke in the sky above my plantation. The French had burned my land and my hut, made of iron and wood which they despised, and claimed that the entire village hated me for being so fortunate and happy.[3] It was then that I sensed that a dangerous force was entering our village. 
Soon after, I saw our people revolt, burning the plantations and running to the towns, inevitably returning in a worse state than before.[4] I saw as the moons bright beams replaced by electric poles, houses were built of concrete and the trees of life fell with one blow onto the barren land.[5] I have visited every last tree, bush and weed in this village, and thus the land showed me all that it has to know. Its been years since Ive known the entire history of this place, and I cannot keep his secret hidden any longer. The very man that lies in this casket has committed the most heinous crimes this place has ever seen. I myself have scratched the earth and found the tortured bodies under the moss and lichen. I come every night at dusk to that very place and pray for the eternal happiness of these people.[6] When I see him here, my eyes burn into his, and he lowers his head before me, for he knows that he is guilty.[7] I believe that nature suffocated him, like a boa suffocating its prey. The earth could not deal with a wicked man walking freely on its soil, so it lured him into its forest and trapped his soul deep underground. This explains the lack of blood on the discovered body, for only a force greater than all of us could have killed a human in such a way. When the earth took his soul, he fell face down into the mud, and his body gave up then and there. I have here a piece of wood from the tree under which his victims are buried, representing both his transgressions and his fateful death. This tree whispered this mans secrets into my ear and brought justice to this island. Now I can die in peace, and while my body sinks into the ground, my soul will enter eternal heaven. 
------------------------------------------------------------
[1] Their fragrance is magic, a power recaptured from times long gone by (201).
[2] One day I was washing my old clothes in the river when [Gracieuse] appeared in front of me, her tray balanced on her head (202).
[3] According to [the French], the entire village hated me for being so fortunate and happy (203).
[4] The women observed them as they went, wiping the tears from their eyes and cradling their bastard children in their arms, knowing full well in the secret of their hearts that this jubilation would not last and that soon poverty would bring them home again (204).
[5] I watched the electric poles go up, the roads tarred, the houses built of concrete and cars running on four wheels (204).
[6] I scratched the earth and whitewashed the conch shells, and every evening at dusk I come here to kneel on my two knees (205).
[7] Every time I meet him my eyes burn into his, and he lowers his head, for this is his crime (205).This test is on all the cases we have covered so far. It is open note and open course pack.
Focus on logic, try to answer as directly as possible.
Question 1
Justice Jackson writes that There are limits to the extent to which a legislatively represented majority may conduct biological experiments at the expense of the dignity and personality and natural powers of a minority. What limits might there be under this ruling? What limits should there be overall? Consider Jacobson when answering.
	In context, this quote comes at the very end of the decision, after establishing the holding in Skinner, which was unrelated to the nature of the punishment of sterilization, rather only to the equal protection under the law against such a cruel and unusual punishment. The judges were more keen to point out the cruelty of sterilization when it came to a man, Skinner, as opposed to a woman, Carrie Buck. Aside from the due process holding in Skinner, Justice Jackson suggests that the government cannot unconditionally execute biological experimentation. I think that the term biological experimentation is somewhat confusing yet I have failed to derive a better term. It sufficiently captures what we are concerned with, when the government requires some atypical medical procedure that one would not normally undergo for their general wellbeing. An example of such a procedure is sterilization. On the contrary, vaccination is, arguably, normalized as part of ones general wellbeing.
Jacobson introduces the use of science and health in constitutional interpretation. Vaccination provides everyone in a community with health. Jacobson establishes that communal liberty of being healthy supersedes individual corporal liberty when there is no evident harm to the individual. The exercise of police power to enforce vaccination is justified for this reason, because sciencean ethos not quite as powerful as the word of the constitution, given that in can be overridden by what is commonly understood, as seen in Lochnercan demonstrate that vaccination is not harmful to the three key areas mentioned: a minoritys dignity, personality, and natural powers.
In general, in order to be appropriate, it seems that a governments biological experiment must pass two tests: whether it violates dignity, personality, and natural powers, and intermediate scrutiny. To begin with, intermediate scrutiny, which is more strict than the rational basis test, yet more cursory than strict scrutiny, says the state may enact experimentation, violate certain rights, and discriminate in that violation only when it has a very good reason for doing so. In this case, as aforementioned, the state has a good reason to violate the freedom to do whatever one wants with their body to ensure health, in addition to the fact that the state would only discriminate with application of the legislation against groups of people that cannot be vaccinated. This is a reasonable descrimination, and thus passed intermediate scrutiny. Finally, experimentation that violates dignity, personality, and natural powers, must be unreasonable, permanent, and immoral respectively. Firstly, dignity is the weakest rule as some medical procedures need to violate this concept in order to be executed. Reasonable procedures do not extend this violation beyond what is necessary. Secondly, violation of personality implies a permanent change to one's person. Again, some procedures must do this, but a good procedure will not seek to alter one's person unless necessary. Thirdly, experimentation that violates natural powers, in my mind, insinuates a religious undertone, that there exist some God-given powers. On the plane or religiosity also exists morals. Thus procedures that do not wish to violate natural powers as defined religiously must adhere to the moral guidelines defined in the same way.
Question 2
The court has, in the past, protected rights that are so rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people as to be ranked as fundamental. What are the advantages and disadvantages of this approach? (100 words)
	
The traditions and conscience of people constitute the un-codified common law. The ninth amendment verifies the existence of these implied rights that reside in the ill-defined common law by suggesting that there are other rights retained by the people, that are not mentioned elsewhere in the bill of rights (9th Amendment). 
The advantages of the ninth is that it can support arguments for non-written rights, such as Justice Douglass peripheral/penumbral rights. 
However, the disadvantage of such a lenient and malleable definition of rights is that it brings the Courts bias when determining what rights are, in fact, penumbral. 
In dissent, Justice Black concludes that judges might invalidate legislation offensive to their personal preferences (101).
He mentions another justice, Justice Learned Hand, who said that he would not want, to be ruled by a bevy of Platonic Guardians (101).
This connects to the first guiding question provided in our discussion of Roe, about Justice Holmes stating, [The Constitution] is made for people of fundamentally differing views in that the conscience of our people may not be such an identifiable entity because of how diverse our opinions are (110). Yet, nonetheless, the judges must not let their opinions influence the law that is created from the traditions and conscience of our people.
To analogize with math, the judges are afraid of skewing a datas average with their own individual opinions. However, their opinions are just one in the many opinions that were used to determine the peoples average in the first place. This means that, when we make legislation only from our traditions, we are bound to stagnate in our laws. This is a disadvantage because we will not be striving toward a more perfect union.
Question 3
Myers and Pierce, Griswold and Eisenstadt. These cases are often grouped together. What do matching cases show about the Supreme Court and how decisions are made and modified? (100 Words)
quote to show how language of cases is similar
Question 4
Justice Harlan says that the preamble is not a source of substantive power. What is the role of the preamble when reading the Constitution?
The preamble provides a thematic context for the Constitution. What types of values will it uphold? Will we have positive or negative rights? That being said, while it gives an abstract of the spirit of the Constitution, the justices claim that it does not have legal power, that only resides in the words of the body. Although, the justices do say that it is appropriate to extract implied meaning from the articles of the Constitution, therefore implications may also be expressed in the preamble, but one cannot source from it.
It seems sort of like citing a research paper, one may reference the abstract, but that is not where the substantive data tables or intricate conclusions lie.
Question 5
Consider how time alters how a decision is seen. In the 1920s, eugenics was approved of in the U.S. By the 1940s, this theory was tied to Nazism. What might the court learn from history when issuing rulings that involve sociological theories? (100 Words)
The court often places importance on historical precedent. The constitutional interpretation framework that most emphasizes this is judicial precedentdeciding cases based on past decisions. This method will induce gradual changes to legislation over item, as all new cases must be determined by adhering to the same logic as past cases.
If some sociological theory, such as eugenics is introduced, it will have a long lasting impact if judicial precedent is used in all subsequent cases that concern related topics in eugenics. 
The court should be cautious with issuing rulings because, just as easily as a novel theory can be introduced, so too can it fall out of fashionas realized by the fact that it was employed by a fascist regime. To expand, legislation based on fads should always be carefully examined to ensure that the idea is indeed societally beneficial. 
While the fact that the court made decisions in support of eugenics in the 20s, it reflects better that they were able to make better decisions in the 1940s. The times are always subject to change.
 
Question 6
Many of the cases we have covered have had powerful dissents. What dissent do you believe is the most impactful and why? (100 Words)
Question 7
Two cases that we have covered are now considered to be poor decisions. Lochner v. New York and Buck v. Bell. What do these cases have in common? (100 words)
	Buck is a poor decision because they treat mental differences as a disease that needs to be eradicated. It is not, having people with mental differences living in society is not harmful to society. Thus, sterilization, as the states method of enacting that extermination, is allowed. 
	Lochner made the poor majority decision because the Judges are not scientists, so they cannot accurately determine the healthiness of baking. They wrongfully determined that, based on their common knowledge, baking is not particularly harmful. Therefore, people should have the freedom to work as much as they want without control of the state.
	They both have the flaw of allowing too much individual control to the states, where more constitutional regulation of states would stand to allow more freedom to the individuals residing in those states. Additionally, both decisions wrongfully utilize, or rather ignore, science in their decisions. Buck states that imbecility is genetic, when it is not necessarily. And Lochner claims that bakery work is not inherently more unhealthy than other occupations with similar hours, neglecting the respiratory concerns from the aerosolized flour particulate. If science had been properly employed to inform the decisions of these cases, they likely would have been more reasonably decided.
 
Question 8
Douglas finds the right to privacy in the 1st, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 9th Does this right exist? Where do you agree/disagree with his description? (100 Words)
The penumbral right of privacy is generated most explicitly in the order of the 9th, the 
Question 9
Is rational basis a strong enough protection of fundamental rights? And is it the courts duty to determine not only constitutionality but also what is and is not a rational means and end for a legislature?

The entrance to the apartment of one A. Ivanovna, pawnbroker, murdered here this past month in cold blood
____________________________
      ON CRIME
                 R. R. Raskolnikov
____________________________
Contemplations on the nature of criminals
____________________________
Why are almost all crimes so conspicuous, so easily discovered, and the traces of almost all criminals revealed so obviously?1 It is the case that, almost without fail, a criminal will, during and after the commission of a crime, commit certain errors which render them vulnerable to identification and conviction. This tendency is due to a failure of the mind -  the criminal himself, at the very moment of the crime, is subject to some failure of willpower and reason which leads him to, consciously or unconsciously, reveal himself.2 This eclipse of reason and failure of willpower seize a person just like an illness, develop gradually, and reach their climax not long before the execution of the crime. 3 There are some few men for whom this is not the case; but the ordinary criminal is self-defeating.
The ordinary criminal is not only self-defeating, but self-punishing as well! He is content to be punished for transgressing, and may even carry out the punishment himself.4 He suffers, and lives for suffering, because it is a reminder of his natural state; he punishes himself because he knows he has done more than his right; he suffers because he has overstepped without reason.
What is it about the mind of the criminal that causes him to behave in this way - to (intentionally or unintentionally) reveal himself, to make himself vulnerable, and to punish himself for his transgression? The answer is a fundamental fact of human psychology: the ordinary man is predisposed to obedience and submission; to live only according to the laws and customs of the society they are born into.5 Therefore, when confronted with the possibility of committing an evil act - a transgression - he hesitates. He holds back. He becomes so preoccupied, so singularly focused, on whether or not he should commit a crime, that he fails to execute it correctly. The only thing that can compel him forward is a defect in, or a failure of, his natural tendencies; a lapse in reason great enough to allow him to transgress.6 It is not that the commission of a crime or the possibility thereof creates an illness in him; such a mental defect is required for the criminal act to occur. Either they must be insane enough to cross the threshold without caring what lies on the other side, or they must be rational enough to see beyond an evil act to a greater good. Those who are willing to transgress, and do so with reason and clarity of mind, are the truly extraordinary - those who can permit themselves to wade through blood to reach a better future.7
 
Ordinary men are men of the present; they live and die by laws set down by greater forebears. In this way, they are incapable of originality; like cattle or sheep, they follow the path set for them.8 The extraordinary man is a man of the future9 - he can see beyond the world of today, to the world of tomorrow; and he can permit himself to overstep the bounds of the ordinary to achieve his great aims. What truly separates the extraordinary man from the ordinary is the formers capacity for original thought. The extraordinary man is capable of uttering new words; of conceiving of novel, even revolutionary, ideas and conceptions of the world; and he has the right to do what is necessary to achieve them.10 The extraordinary can be prophets like Mohammed; scientists like Newton or Kepler; lawgivers like Solon or Lycurgus; and conquerors like Napoleon.11 But what makes them extraordinary is their singular, original visions of the future, and their capacity and obligation to realize those visions. That is the burden of the extraordinary man.
____________________________
The banks of the river Irtysh, Omsk Oblast, Siberia. Visible from Omsk katorga.
____________________________
OF THE RESURRECTION
                 S. Semyonovna
____________________________
OMSK  The act of murder does not extinguish one life, but two - that of the victim, and that of the murderer.1 In committing such an act, the soul is rent from the grace and salvation of God. To murder is to cause irreparable harm to Creation - to that part of Creation made in Gods image. The only hope for a murderer, the only way to begin on the path to redemption, is resurrection. For the LORD says I am the resurrection and the Life; he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.2
Resurrection is not redemption3; it is merely the first step along that path. The path to redemption requires penance and atonement for sin; but in order to repent, one must believe in repentance; the murderer must go to the crossroads, stand before God and the people, and confess; then God will send him new life.4 For a soul to be forgiven, and brought into the eternal light of love, it must first be alive. The dead are incapable of receiving love; the living reciprocate it.5 To a dead man, love and grace are simply reminders of the infinite love and grace they have rejected; to the living soul, love is the ultimate source of life, a wellspring of light.6 To open ones heart to suffering is to open it also to joy. The living soul does not fear death, for it has seen the resurrection.7 I have seen the resurrection, and I do not fear death.
____________________________
   AGAINST IDEOLOGY
             D. P. RAZUMIKHIN
____________________________
The great scholars and philosophers of the day purport to have captured the essence of human nature in a few lines of mathematical logic. They reject life! They truly believe that the entire secret of life fits on two sheets of printers paper.1 The complexity of creation and the nature of each person is not considered; but those realities are the very point of human existence! Pure ideology is a rejection of life and of human nature. In the great modernity, all people can be distilled into a single equation; cogs in an ideological machine.2 Forget about living; livings not important - only ideology.3 The utopians construct phalansteries like mausoleums; temples to modernity in which the souls of the dead go to be entombed.4 The paradise they envision is a sterile, lifeless world; their ideal state acting as the mechanical executor of ideology. Even if their social system can be made of rubber and smells a bit like carrion - its still not alive, it has no will, its slavish, it doesnt rebel!5 The socialists can excuse any evil if it serves a common good6, and reject the notion that human acts are caused by human nature;7 the utilitarians reduce every moral action into a mathematical formula! There is no room for humanity - no room for life - in any of their views of the world. But one cannot leap over human nature by means of logic alone! The enlightened scholars philosophize and debate over the most fundamental aspects of human morality in terms that defy reason. Death and suffering should not be so wantonly excused by ideology, lest we forget also the value of life. 
____________________________
 INSANITY AND REASON
____________________________
Insanity is fundamentally a failure of reason - when a vulnerable mind is confronted with two irreconcilable statements, both of which he believes to be true, but which cannot be, he is broken. Such a contradiction can be the fault of a logical error, or an incorrect view of things.1 In the end, the result is the same: the patient has brought these ideas into themselves - he has incorporated them into his psyche so fully, that, when confronted with the reality that they are irreconcilable, rather than discarding one or the other, he fixates on that contradiction. This is a monomania: a singular fixation on this unresolvable question posed to oneself.2
This sickness consumes them - twisting and contorting their every waking thought, forcing indecision and erratic behavior as the patients mind is turned upon itself. This kind of insanity is often accompanied with irrational, even criminal behavior3 - for in such a state, one might be compelled to do anything to resolve the contradiction. Such an illness might be accompanied by physical ailments alongside mental ones; these being the material manifestation of a psychological ill: the blood crying out within oneself.4
The only way to treat this kind of illness is by confronting the paradox at its source; one must persuade the person that the dilemma they are confronted with is false - by reasoning and contradiction.6
____________________________
 ON CRIME - A RESPONSE
                 P. PETROVICH
____________________________
I will begin by acknowledging points of agreement with the preceding article. It is true, in my experience, that the deepest and most revealing weakness of the criminal is his psychology.1 It is natural for a criminal to doubt his actions; to question the reason behind what he is doing, as well as to interrogate his every move for any hint of guilt or suspicion.2 The criminal becomes preoccupied, and indeed singularly focused, on committing the crime. This monomania leads them to lose their reason; to, subconsciously, reveal themselves.3 I must, however, raise several points of disagreement with the preceding article. First, that those who view themselves as able to commit crimes without suspending their reason or willpower are truly able to evade their natural tendency to reveal themselves; second, that it is perhaps impossible to determine, by such a standard, who is extraordinary and who is not; and third, that it is permissible, morally and societally, to commit such evil acts if they serve some greater good.
In the first case: it has been my experience that those who view themselves as able to commit crimes with impunity are not themselves invulnerable to the irrationality that plagues the ordinary criminal.4  This is human nature; even - indeed especially - for those who believe themselves to be extraordinary. [They lie] incomparably well, but they [cant] rely on their own nature.5 They become, in many cases, too clever - too caught up in the dance of suspicion and investigation - and in so doing, reveal themselves.6
In the second: if there are, as is proposed, two predominant categories of people - the ordinary and the extraordinary, the leaders and the followers, the men of the present and of the future - how might we go about determining who is who?7 Many people might naturally assume that they themselves are in that lucky few. After all, one does not like to think of oneself as naturally mute and subservient. It is therefore the case that many people would like to be extraordinary, and many people are willing to overstep, even if they are not truly extraordinary; how then can we distinguish between the two categories?
Finally, I take issue with this idea that such extraordinary men may be obligated to feel sorrow for their actions, but are not obligated to suffer for them.8 They do not take on the guilt or the responsibility for such an act, because it was necessary to achieve their lofty goals. Theirs is a noble sorrow, distant from the reality of bloodshed. One who can numb himself to blood and sin is not truly alive; he is an automaton, simply carrying out a calculated sequence of events to their pre-ordained conclusion. Guilt and suffering are signs of life!9 Go on, suffer   dont philosophize too cleverly; give yourself up to life directly, without deliberating; dont worry!10 
In the end, does it matter? Does it truly matter whether you are ordinary or extraordinary? You are yourself, a singular and original soul; you possess a life that is yours, given to you by God - live it! The extraordinary man is no man at all if he has no heart or living soul - if he operates only according to mechanical logic derived from coldly calculated theories.11 Well then, so what if you have to join a different category of men?  Its not time that matters, but you yourself. Become a sun and everyone will see you. Most of all, the sun should be the sun.12
See Footnotes, B1 
Alexander Pichler
Mari OMeara
E400 Great Works of World Literature
16 December 2022
Whats More Important: Action or Intention?
One of the key components of an action is the intention behind it. Intention is interesting in the sense that it rarely can be observed from outside an individuals inner thoughts. Instead, intention is a thought only known to ones self, which makes it difficult for others to pick up on. This is precisely why it can be so difficult to judge others by their intentions rather than their actions. More often than not, intention can be the determining factor for the morality of not only the action itself, but the person behind it. Intention, in its simplest form, is a wish that one means to accomplish. In this definition, the keyword is mean because even if one means to do something, there is still a chance it may not become reality. In other words, intention has the ability to influence a situation but doesnt necessarily determine the outcome of that situation. In comparison, action is the thing that is physically being done rather than the desire for what should be done. Judging the morality of actions themselves, however, can prove to be difficult. An action can be deemed virtuous if it employs behavior with high moral standards, including high moral intentions. Primarily, a virtuous action is an action that benefits others or a community positively. The opposite can be said for immoral actions, where they would be considered not virtuous when they entail intentionally doing harm to others. Another situation where a contrast between action and intention can be seen is in tragic stories, where it is common for good characters to make tragic mistakes. Specifically in the tragedies Macbeth, by William Shakespeare, and Oedipus the King, by Sophocles, can a connection between good and bad intentions and actions be seen to influence the overall virtue of the main characters. As proven by the main characters in Macbeth and Oedipus the King, a character is deemed virtuous not because of their actions, but rather because of their intentions.
	To many who read the tragedy of Macbeth, the main character, Macbeth, comes off as a bloody tyrant, who is a terrible person down to his core. But the reason why many readers think this about him is not entirely because of the many atrocious murders he committed, but rather because of the fact that he committed them willingly, intentionally, and with full knowledge that they were morally wrong. Macbeths cruel intentions can clearly be seen shortly after the story begins. Macbeth is famously prophesied to be the future King of Scotland by three witches. When Macbeth later encounters Duncan, the current King of Scotland, Duncan mentions that his son Malcolm will be his heir to the throne. After hearing this news, Macbeths desire to become king turns to obsession as he plots to kill Duncan, so he can claim the throne. Macbeths first step into darkness can be observed after his meeting with Duncan where he states, Stars, hide your fires;/Let not light see my black and deep desires (Shakespeare 1.4.57-58). When Macbeth mentions his deep desires, he refers to his desire to kill Duncan so he can become king. This is further shown by the use of the word black, which implies that his desires are evil. Macbeth's inner thoughts prove his negative intentions in addition to his later-seen full willingness to kill for his own rapacity. This exhibits how Macbeth is not a virtuous person, since he describes his own desires as so evil that even light can not see them. Furthermore, the fact that Macbeth had full knowledge that the murders he committed were morally wrong gives him no excuse for murdering Duncan. This can clearly be seen right after Macbeth exits Duncans room after killing Duncan when Macbeth refuses to go back because [he is] afraid to think about what [he has] done/Look on t again [he] dare not (Shakespeare 2.3.65-67). When Macbeth mentions that he is afraid to think about what [he has] done, this implies that he knew the murder was morally wrong from the start by bringing to light that he knows he will feel bad about killing Duncan if he returns to the body. This is an important factor to recognize because if Macbeth had rather unknowingly or accidentally killed Duncan instead of plotting an elaborate murder, he may have been judged differently by readers. The fact that Macbeth knowingly and intentionally did something he knew was morally wrong proves he is not virtuous in the sense that he is intentionally harming others.
	Very different from Macbeth, however, is the story of Oedipus the King, by Sophocles. In this historic Greek tragedy, Oedipus is a man who unknowingly kills his father, unintentionally marries his mother, and takes on his fathers title as King of Thebes. Towards the middle of the story, Oedipus mentions how he was prophesied this fate by the god Apollo, and how that was the reason why he fled his home in Corinth. When he finally opens up about the prophecy to his wife, he admits that Apollo told me onceit is my fateI must make love with my own mother, shed my fathers blood with my own hands. So for years Ive given Corinth a wide berth, [...] but still, to see ones parents and look into their eyes is the greatest joy I know (Sophocles 216). When Oedipus tells readers how to see ones parents and look into their eyes is the greatest joy, this indicates how much Oedipus loves his parents and how he pains to not see them. Not only that, but when Oedipus mentions how it was because of the prophecy that he has given Corinth a wide berth, this shows how selfless Oedipus is, for he is willing to sacrifice his own happiness if it means avoiding hurting his parents. However, Macbeth is oblivious to the fact that he was adopted and that the man he had killed in a conflict on his way to Thebes was his real father and his real mother is his wife. In this scenario, Oedipus sacrificing his own joy to avoid causing harm to his parents reflects extremely honorable intentions. However, his actions do not reflect these intentions at all, for he has indeed succumbed to the fate he was trying so hard to avoid. Yet, even though Oedipuss actions were terrible, it is still fair to say that Oedipus himself is still virtuous because of his good intentions. Even though Oedipus caused harm to his parents, himself, and the entire kingdom, he didnt do so intentionally. Since immoral intention is included in the definition of an immoral character, Oedipus does not fall into that category as Macbeth did because he instead acted with good intentions. Unlike Macbeth, Oedipus was completely ignorant of the true nature of his actions and only learned of them at the end of the play. What this example shows is that intention is more important than action when it comes to determining whether or not a tragic hero is moral or immoral.
	In the end, even though intention may hint at a character's moral standings, this doesnt necessarily mean that intention completely dominates action. Its rather to say that honorable intentions have the power to pardon terrible actions in the right circumstances. In many books and plays, action is simple whereas intention is complex, and each story may harbor a different relationship between them. One might call it a moral tug-of-war between action and intention, where the strength of each side can change, therefore impacting a books moral foundation. This is precisely why it is so dangerous to jump into a new story with pre-existing ideas of action overshadowing intention or vice-versa. Our initial judgements of characters can be way off due to lack of context. So instead of jumping to the conclusion that a character is moral or immoral in a story without closely examining each side of the tug-of-war, one might avoid judgment until the end of the book when all is said and done.
Works Cited
Aristotle. Poetics. Translated by Malcolm Heath. Penguin Books, 1996.
Shakespeare, William. Macbeth. Edited by Barbra A. Mowat and Paul
Werstine. Simon and Schuster, 1992.
Sophocles. The Three Theban Plays: Antigone, Oedipus the King, Oedipus at Colonus.
Translated by Robert Fagles. Penguin Books, 1984. 159-251.
George Hosein
Mari OMeara, Christopher Obenchain, Brian Crawford
ID410 - What is the Good Life
16 September 2022
The pressure on my ears needles me with pain. My eyes strain to open but falter against the clotted lashes. Burning lungs shudder and groan, but no air passes through my nose. Limbs ache, itching with the urge for movement. This false mask imprisons every inch of my being. My heart, now truly imprisoned, sinks with pain, dripping from my chest to pool at the soles of my feet.  Yet, this was all my own doing. I constructed this cocoon by choice. My own deft hands layered each piece of gleaming white clay onto the warm shine of my wooden calves. My own hands enveloped the crooks of my arms with cold false stone. What was it that I had desired? 
Before all of this, my wooden arms had shone with pigments more brilliant than rubies and emeralds. With pricked wood and jagged carvings, the sprawling asymmetry of my limbs threw the air around them into imbalance. The contrast of my true form, jarring against the pearlescent marble of my neighboring statues, disrupted many of those who had elected to walk through our exhibit. Their sweeping eyes widened at my image. Their bumbling feet would trip backward, wrinkled noses arcing away at my overwhelming presence. This had not always bothered me. There were a few visitors who would gravitate towards my side, smiles wide and easy, chatting with a friend, words tumbling over each other. I treasured these visitors, many of whom chose to pause by my side again and again, and I grew to love them as friends. Many of them were quite unique in their own right, comfortably wearing their imperfections with pride. I felt we held each other's sorrows and joys, spilling our most inner selves with the deepest compassion. I was free back then, in all my deformities I stretched to my fullest size, face crackling with joy when my palms caught the passing sun, illuminating me to my greatest might. If only it could have been that way forever. But as my time in the gallery lengthened, more and more unkind eyes would linger upon me, their stomachs knotting with my prolonged presence. These visitors were not content to look at the other carved sculptures, beautiful in their own right with limbs of gleaming marble, poised with unflawed anatomy. My garish presence caught their eyes, and their minds could not accept the countless little flaws. 
Why is this here?, they would ask, It doesn't belong, no true sculptor would have erred so much. 
Their words pierced me, each one sinking deeper into my heart with knife-like precision, each one crowding out the kind looks of those who cherished me for my rough-hewn edges and garish colors. It was then that I started with the clay. 
At first, my fingers tentatively concealed each divot and crack with a thin layer of slip, merely smoothing the irregular exterior. My pace quickened at the newly silky texture of my surface. Craving more, I smeared layer after layer of ever-thickening clay onto the entire surface of my body. I wanted to fill the cavities and clear myself of all criticism. I wanted all eyes to fall upon me kindly, unable to catch on any jagged edges or shocking colors. The clay doused my once fiery limbs. The quieting criticisms of the onlookers drove me on, their knives falling from my chest. It wasn't until my ears clogged that I realized what I had done. My eyes still unsealed, I gazed upon my form, gasping at what I had become. The clay was pristine and smooth, yes, but I had become a cheap imitation of my marble counterparts. This case had hidden all my flaws but had stolen away any character or emotion. My brilliance dimmed and I appeared to dwindle in size despite my extra layers. My eyes searched desperately for my loyal partners, but they had all drifted away, unable to find me among the marble. All that remained were my previous dissenters, only pausing for a fleeting gaze or word of approval before moving on and leaving me alone. Despite the lack of harsh words, my heart ached more than ever, now no longer swelling with the authentic love of my once dear companions. My body that had served me for so long sagged with grief for its former self and with a silent cry, my hands once more lifted the clay to seal my eyes and mouth, before finally becoming too heavy to raise again.
The pain of this performance spills over, it fills each crevice of my mind and stomach, tearing at the seams of my conscious. An unbearable pain shoots outwards and skirts along my skin, sparking the desire to stretch freely in the sun, with a body of my own free will, and to laugh and feel with my friends. The pressure builds in my fingertips, finally bursting through the clay cast. The warmth of the sun pierces my exposed fingers, further fueling the fire that burns through my arm, into my chest and head, and through my legs, shards of dry clay breaking and shattering on the floor. With the last fragments clattering to the floor, my eyes slowly flutter open, the sudden daylight blinding them and sending sharp jolts of pain into my skull. I gaze upon the stunned crowd, their jaws slack and eyes unblinking. They now slowly back away but with my newly regained brilliance, I no longer care, my spine shivers at the idea of the alternative. My eyes turn away from the stifling crowd and back onto my now unleashed form. With a lurch in my stomach, I become aware of the toll my foolishness has taken. The paint that once clung brightly to me now lays with the porous clay in an ashen pile around my feet. I stand free but naked and drab. My newly revived heart hammers in my chest. Unburdened fingers wheel about themselves, brushing the remnants of the flaking paint. Lips trembling, I pull my arms inward, the cold air stinging my uncovered back. Hands to my chest, I inhale, the breath in my lungs feeding the internal flame and, with growing resolve, decide to start anew. Smearing paint with the same fingers that had led to my imprisonment, I blend the most cheerful and eye-catching colors, my focus now directed entirely on my own pleasure and volition. Meeting each impurity with a grin, I restore myself beyond my former glory, newfound creativity peeping through the unlikely melds of rich pigments. Now at the height of my power, my friends gradually return, my new design calling for their company. Their words melt the scars from my heart, and I pull them ever closer, my eyes sparkling with relief and gratitude. The stray words of an anonymous passerby can no more puncture the pigments that now adorned me. My delight in myself and those who love me consumes the space entirely. ,    .4
VOL. CLXXXVI . . No. 64,13111
ST. PETERSBURG, FRIDAY, JULY 20, 1866
Editor in Chief: Alexandre Lipson 0.01 
Weather Forecast
Today, Stifling heat5, some humidity, as well as smog.
Tomorrow, Just the same.
Canal Apartment
Contact Mr. Kapernaumov9 for more details
Those who are searching for lodging in the modern10 St. Petersburg must have a room of equally modern architecture.11
Mr. Kapernaumov is pleased to announce that an opening at the Canal Apartments will soon become available!
Elsewhere one may find many budget options12 from which to select. Do not pick not from the bottom of the barrel. This offering is of the utmost luxury! The apartment resides within a vintage, yet vibrant, green house of three stories13 that sits just beside the canal. Rustic staircases extend from the spacious courtyard to the many individual domiciles offered within the complex.
All the rooms are connected, but you may choose to leave your doors locked. Each room is spacious yet cozy.14 There are plenty of windows to let in natural light and views of the canal.15 And, the room is ready to be furnished to your hearts content.16
ON CRIME
By R.R.R.
The Russia of today has become increasingly concerned with justice.17 The influx of residents to urban zones, such as Petersburg, has impoverished these very same cities. Poverty, in combination with its causal factor of poor economic conditions, spawns crime at a rate18 never before seen here in Peterburg. Today, it becomes necessary to understand crime and its perpetrators to begin to break its chokehold on society.
Nature has established two categories of people: the ordinary, and the extraordinary.22 All people are born within these bounds; All may become criminals, but only the extraordinary are permitted to commit crimes. The psychological state of the criminal during his crime5 depends on where the individual exists within the hierarchy. Crimes consist of both moral and legal transgressions. Society explicitly punishes legal violations, and implicitly chastises moral ones.
The definition of a criminal extends beyond one who commits legal transgressions, to any trailblazer of society. Anyone who strays from the zeitgeist with new ideas must first reject old ideas.19 Even those who are make small forays into uncharted ground are, by their experimenting nature, criminals.21 It follows that a criminal is extraordinary provided that his crimes require the destruction of the present order in the name of something better.20 For the criminal who is not extraordinary, yet has mistakenly convinced himself otherwise, a crime is always accompanied by suffering.24
The vast majority of all persons are born ordinary.25 The originality of a person is proportionate to the rarity of their birth. For example, at least one person out of a thousand will be in any way original, while men of genius are one out of millions.28 The ordinary man is not without purpose; he should increase the worlds population, such that the world is more likely to attain an extraordinary
agent of change27 who will move the world forward and lead it to its goal.29 Therefore both types of men ought to exist and have equally strong rights within this system.30 This system was established not by the extraordinary men, but rather by nature herself. This natural law mixes only a few extraordinary persons in with the ordinary masses. This natural mechanism is yet to be understood26.
When an extraordinary man wishes to instantiate his new idea, he may use whatever means necessary to, permit his conscience to overstep various obstacles.31 He may not need to violate the law in order to meet some of his ends, so the extraordinary man is not obligated to violate the law.32 In either case, the extraordinary man will not preoccupy himself with whether or not the law was violated. He is fixed upon only his goal. The priorities of the extraordinary man are most clearly exemplified in the Machiavellian idea that the ends justify the means. However, when an ordinary man attempts to follow the
same philosophy, he will be unable to surmount the legal obstacles established by society.
It is a rare event for an ordinary person to attempt to transgress. Most ordinary persons are obedient by nature.33 If an ordinary person thinks himself extraordinary, upon committing a crime, his conscience will render a self-inflicted punishment. His obedient conscience, which has been molded to the form of societys expectations of his submission, will recognize his actions as infractions against the laws under which he lives. He, nor any ordinary man, cannot change those laws, and he will therefore suffer because of his acknowledgement of powerlessness34.
	The final element of suffering is the ordinary mans realization that he is not extraordinary. His elevated position on the hierarchy matrix is now demonstrably false, as he was a victim to his conscience. The conscience will continue to be the impetus of the ordinary mans suffering. If ignorance and pride convinced him that he could be extraordinary, guilt and remorse remind him that he is not. The perpetual torment is twofold: the ordinary man has transgressed; and, unlike the extraordinary man, he does not wield power over his own conscience. So, the ordinary criminal must suffer.
The threat of crime in Russia today is not as injurious as it may appear. Because ordinary men will punish themselves, and most men are ordinary, crime will deal with itself as it propagates, provided that the criminal punishment infrastructure is well established.35 Society needs to be principally concerned with the extraordinary men, who are not deterred by legal consequence. When the extraordinary man is punished by the same means as are used for ordinary men, society may perceive that it has dealt with an ordinary mansociety is of course justified in such a punishment.36 The extraordinary man will only become recognized in the future37, when his change is reflected by the mass of humanity.36 All men are ordinary in the present, so all men must be punished for legal transgressions. This punishment, of course, won't hinder the extraordinary men of our future.
Republished from Periodical Discourses2
A Critical Response to, 
ON CRIME
By Porfiry Petrovich
The opinion piece, On Crime, holds many erroneous claims, which it considers to be assuasive to justice, but are, in fact, most dangerous to the principle. It is paramount to combat the absurd and fantastic45 stance made by the frantic fanatic fictioner and his idea that some of us are born with self-derived and deserved power. When the author shares his work, he intends46
to proudly45 broadcast that he considers himself to harness this power, that he is one of a class of, extraordinary men.47 The advantage of such status is that he may permit himself to commit crimes and avoid all repercussions. However, no one can avoid suffering for a crime.
The article claims that there exists a minute population of extraordinary menand that there is a great diversity in the extraordinary quality of these men, and that all other men are ordinary. Even if these odds were supposedly true, this ratio of all men does not reflect their originality.
For, there are most certainly imaginative people within our Petersburg48 who may not be extraordinary in the same sense as proposed by the terms author, that is, immune to their conscience. Even if these people eventually submit to their conscience, they would do so only after having transgressed; whether or not they ultimately yield to an obedient conscience does not erase the fact that a crime has been committed. Because the ordinary man is still a freethinker, as opposed to a drone under societal law, crime will not simply cease to be committed.
To self-assign the power to operate above all others is quintessentially arrogant.45 To permit one's conscience to be the judge, jury, and executioner of another's life is even worse than being granted those roles by some official authority of many men49a democratic body wields more power than any individual.50 Simply put, a man cannot be above all men as is God. By claiming such jurisdiction, the extraordinary man would claim to be god-like. This is a fundamental incongruity; man cannot put himself, nor his conscience, above men. (For the man who tries, the sequence of events might unfold just as the author
suggests: with crushing suffering.)
As established, the author is the sort of fellow51 to think himself extraordinary, and, as such, must be preparing to, utter a new word. However, a word of caution to those who are enthused52 by the idea of thinking themselves to be extraordinary: just the same, you cannot escape justice. If justice means punishment, so too will punishment be inevitable. Thus, it appears true that crime will always be accompanied by suffering. If society holds the letter of the law against you, you shall be dealt justice.53 If God knows your actions,54 as He always will, then you will suffer for them.  Punishment cannot be avoided as we are all, in Gods image, merely men.
One cannot grant oneself permission to transgress. It is most dangerous to consider oneself extraordinary and to be wrong; such a test is not worth the risk. If the only means of understanding that all men must atone for crimes is to commit crimes, it must then be necessary for some men to transgress. Therefore it is necessary for some men to suffer,55 to remind them that they are not extraordinary. Such a cycle of ordinary men committing crimes in order to realize their state would facilitate the exercise of justice, but lead it no further to its goal: to abate crime.
submitted by Dmitri Prokofich Razumikhin6,7
Bridges
A Poem
A bridge crosses a river.
In a city of rivers, canals, and islands, bridges are the connective tissue of the disparate organelles.
The lungs of the city suffocate in the heat5 to form a shared exhausted complexion.38
Her bridges provide a hiatus
from every edifice.
Each bridge, an elevated pathway
from the crush of the people.39
The air is devoid of the jingle of the feeble bells.40
The bridge is the conduit through which the citys ideas flow.
Like nerves of the city, bridges sense and feel.
Then, they reflect, like neurons, after the foot traffic sleeps at night.
An overpass provides passage across a canal8.
To cross a bridge is to make a choice about which place to be.41
To cross a bridge is to change place, and likewise, state of mind.42
To cross the same bridge twice is to revert one's choice.43
At the apex of the bridge, the gravity of choice will roll down in either direction.44
Footnotes
1.The edition number contains the numerical values of the initials of the two authors: Fyodor Dostoyevsky, and Michael Katz. The volume number is the same as the publishing year.
1.Raskolnikovs paper, wound up in Periodical Discourses (283).
2.Raskolnikov signed [his paper] only with [his] initials (284).
3.Tagline means, The place where all the truth is spat.
4.Raskolnikov introduces Petersburg, saying, It was stiflingly hot outside (4).
5.Razumikhin does translation work. He mentions Rousseau and Radishchev as big literary names in the scene of progressive politics (124).
6.Razumikhin shares his business plan to be a bookseller, editor and publisher all in one. He also notes that he can translate three European languages (342).
7.The overpass actually happens to cross a street near my house.
8.Owner of Sonyas apartment building.
9.When they first met, Luzhin told Raskolnikov that Petersburg was a city of young people, I havent been to Petersburg in the last ten years. All these new things, reforms, ideas [...] to understand it all, one must be in Petersburg (163).
10.Sonyas room [...] had an irregular quadrilateral shape [...] One corner, terribly acute [...] The other corner was too hideously obtuse (347).
11.Luzhin spoke of an undesirable selection of available rooms when he searched for lodging for Dunya and Pulkheriya Alexandrovna (162).
12.When Raskolnikov goes to visit Sonyas apartment, he sees, an old, three-story green house. [...] [a] dark staircase in the corner of the courtyard (346).
13.Raskolnikov remarked that Sonyas room, was a large room, but with an extremely low ceiling (347).
14.Sonyas room has, a wall with three windows faxing out on the canal (347).
15.Raskolnikov noticed that, there was almost no furniture at all (347).
16.The accession of Alexander II to the throne in 1855 promised significant changes. [...] Judicial reforms were instituted to promote the speedy and equitable administration of justice (vii).
17.With growing migration to the cities, poverty became a constant hardship for new urban dwellers. There was an increase in violence as a result of difficult economic conditions (vii).
18.The trailblazers of humanity [...] were criminals, just by virtue of the fact that in propagating new laws, they were at the same time destroying the old laws viewed as sacred by society (285).
19.[Extraordinary] crimes [...] are [...] relative and diverse; In extremely diverse forms they require the destruction of the present order in the name of something better (286).
20.Those who are even marginally capable of uttering some new word, must, by their nature, necessarily be criminals (286).
21.People are divided in general into two categories: the lower category (ordinary), [...] material serving solely for the purpose of reproducing the species, and into people proper, [...] those who possess the gift or talent of uttering some new word in their milieu (286).
22.The psychological state of the criminal during the entire commission of his crime (284).
23.A crime is always accompanied by illness (284).
24.An unusually small number of people are born [...] who are capable of even uttering something new (288).
25.The order that controls the human births, [...] must be extremely closely and accurately determined by some law of nature. This law, it goes without saying, is now unknown, but I believe that it exists and may subsequently become known. (288-289).
26.The purpose of the ordinary man is to increase the worlds population (287).
27.The listed odds of the birth rates of the different levels of extraordinary men (289).
28.[Extraordinary men] move the world forward and lead it to its goal (287).
29.Both [types] have an equal right to exist. In a word, all men have equally strong rights (287).
30.The extraordinary man has the right [...] to permit his conscience to overstep various obstacles [...] in the case that the execution of his idea [...] requires it (285).
31.I dont insist that extraordinary people must commit all sorts of crimes (285).
32.[The ordinary are] conservative people by nature, [...] In my opinion, theyre even obligated to be obedient because thats their destiny (286).
33.[Ordinary people will] beat themselves up because theyre so well behaved. [...] They impose various public punishments on themselves (288). If someone has a conscience, and if he acknowledges his mistake, then let him suffer. Thats his punishment, in addition to hard labor (290).
34.Society is well provided for with all its exiles, prisons [...] (290).
35.However, theres no cause for alarm: the mass of humanity hardly ever recognizes this right[, to transgress]; it punishes thes men or hangs them (more or less), and does so with absolute justification, fulfilling its conservative function (286).
36.The [ordinary] category always comprises men of the present; the [extraordinary], men of the future. (287).
37.Svidrigailov has a fresh complexion not typical of Petersburg (269).
38.Typical conditions in Petersburg include, the crush of people in the market (4).
39.The bell jingled feebly [...] Such bells could be found in almost all similar small buildings (5-6).
40.Raskolnikov crossed a bridge to reach Petrovsky island before having his dream about the horse (59).
41.Svidrigailov crossed the Neva River via Tuchkov Bridge before killing himself (561).
42.Raskolnikov crossed back across the bridge he used to get to Alyonas to commit the murder. He then feels conflicted and destroyed (94). A young man [...] set off towards the Kokushkin Bridge (1).
43.Raskolnikov is position on the middle of the bridge when he is deciding whether or not to commit suicide. He sees the woman attempt to drown herself, makes his choice not to, and walks away from the middle of the bridge. Raskolnikov went directly to the Voznesensky Bridge, stood in the middle near the reeling, rested his elbows on it, and gazed off along the bank (186-187).
44.Porfiry calls Raskolnikov and his work, daring, [and] arrogant. [...] proud. [...] absurd and fantastic (497-498).
45.Porfiry scrutiniz[ed Raskolnikovs] article then, when [he] began expounding on it[Porfiry] understood each and every one of [his] words in two ways, as if there were another word implied by each! (499).
46.Porfiry was considering if Raskolnikovs philosophy would allow him to commit the murder Could it possibly be the case [...] that you might also have considered yourself even the tiniest bit, to be an 'extraordinary man uttering some new word in the sense that youre using itIsnt that so ? (291).
47.Dont you think that such wildly imaginative types can come from the common people? There are a lot of them! (501).
48.Porfiry agreed with Razumikhin when he countered Raskolnikovs point with the idea that, The sanctioning of bloodshed as a matter of conscience; why, in my opinion, thats more terrible than an official or legal sanction to shed blood (289).
49.What can be done about this view of our judicial system widespread among the people? Some find the words he will be condemned simply terrifying (501).
50.Porfiry is interested in the sort of fellow a person is, psychological profiling (500).
51.Proud, suppressed enthusiasm is dangerous in youth! (497).
52.Porfiry thinks of justice as an external force, You must fulfill what justice demands (506).
53.Porfiry thinks that praying to God will help Raskolnikov (507).
54.Its simply necessary to suffer. That means to accept suffering (501). Suffering, Rodion Romanych, is a great thing (508).In democratic and communist countries, our political ideologies have failed us. Nearly every pillar that the architects of American democracy promised to uphold has been shattered. Democratic elections, once trusted as a system central to democracy itself, are now regarded as corrupt and rigged. Distrust of political and economic elites is reflected across the political spectrum. Wealth gaps are increasing, the hostile divide between liberals and conservatives is widening, and mass shootings have become an epidemic. Communism, too, has not followed through on its promises. Far from creating a proletarian utopia, it has created corrupt and powerful bureaucracies that have largely given up on socialism in order to pursue their own riches. How do we grapple with the fact that the political philosophies that we have adhered to for centuries have resulted in a society plagued with issues that seem utterly disconnected and unsolvable by the existing power structures? Are there underlying themes for how modern society undermines these political systems? The economic and political philosophies that have dominated the twentieth and twenty-first century rely on a lack of diversity and complexity and thus they are not capable of solving the current issues that arise from modern society. 
Traditional political ideologies are in part incompatible with progress because they were built upon the idea of a state of nature, a concept that assumes that humans are imbued with universal characteristics and are homogenous in nature. However, this practice of forming a political ideology based on a state of nature becomes problematic when such political ideologies are applied to culturally diverse societies. This is so because humans are not born with any such essence. As Sartre explains, existence comes before essence, meaning that man first of all exists, encounters himself, surges up in the world - and defines himself afterwards. For this reason, building a political philosophy based on a state of nature is only suited for a homogenous group that fits the philosophers assumptions about human predispositions in a state of nature. For example, consider Lockes state of nature and his advocacy for representative democracy. Locke believed that all people are given an innate right to punish the offender and be the executioner of the law of nature. From this, he concludes that representative democracy is the best form of government as people can be trusted to be the executioner of the law and act according to their innate morals. However, while a representative democracy might work in a society composed of like-minded individuals with similar moral codes, such a political system begins to erode in a society composed of multiple cultures with contradicting values. For instance, the increasing cultural diversity of the United States is leading to an increased polarization between liberals and conservatives. This increasing polarization between liberals and conservatives has begun to undermine American democracy. The capitol insurrection, the rollback of voting rights, and the politicization of the supreme court are all evidence that a democratic political philosophy based on Lockes view that we are all imbued with the right to be the executioner of our innate moral values seems to break down in a society composed of different cultural groups with different moral values. Or otherwise stated, political philosophies that make foundational assumptions about the state of nature are contingent on a lack of cultural diversity and thus do not work effectively in a modern society. 
Even political philosophies that were not specifically grounded on a particular view of the state of nature were still founded on assumptions regarding the homogeneity of society because they were crafted in times when society tended to be more homogenous. For example, in A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy, published in 1859, Karl Marx advocates for a social revolution to bring about a communal system that makes individual labor appear as the direct function of a member of a social organism and makes it impossible for the labor of the individual to be private labor and his product to be a private product. This socialist economy that Marx describes is suited for a homogenous society. For example, Kibbutzes, egalitarian and socialist communities in Israel, have been described as a successful implementation of socialism. This is due to the fact that the members of these communities share similar values and thus both trust and care for each other. Members trust that others will complete their share of work and will work towards fulfilling the same values that they prioritize. However, while socialism works in this environment, Marx failed to acknowledge the issue of trust that would emerge from implementing a socialist economy in a larger, heterogeneous society. For instance, socialism failed miserably in the Soviet Union for many reasons, including the fact that there were no economic incentives for people to work hard and there was no common cultural fabric that allowed people to trust that their hard work would be replicated by all their comrades. Therefore, even though socialism was not imagined with a distinct state of nature as its foundation, its success still presupposes the homogeneity of a society because it was conceived at a time that could not comprehend the full scale of diversity that exists in modern society. 
	Given that the dominant political and economic ideologies of the past two centuries have not succeeded in governing modern society, it seems that our only hope of solving modern problems is to create a new political philosophy. However, as illustrated by Fanons The Wretched of the Earth, truly eliminating the hierarchical systems left by oppressive regimes is impossible, and thus creating a new political philosophy that does not build upon pre-existing power structures is not a possible solution for solving current issues. Fanons exploration of decolonization serves as an example for decolonization efforts in our current society, which could be argued to have been colonized by Western political philosophy. The colonized, in this case, are those that are oppressed by dominant political philosophies, and the colonizers are those that are advantaged by these political philosophies and use their power to maintain these power structures. Fanon writes, [the definition of decolonization] can, if we want to describe it accurately, be summed up in the well-known words: The last shall be first. In other words, in getting rid of a particular oppressive political system, another oppressive political system will take its place. After a social revolution, the peoples that were oppressed by a political system will inevitably rise to the top of the hierarchical power structure and become the oppressor. This is not the oppressed people's fault as hierarchy is the only system they can comprehend after living under a hierarchical system. The desire to climb to the top creeps into every persons values and goals, infesting all facets of livelihood. Therefore, modern society cannot create a new political philosophy suited to its diversity because political ideologies will always advantage a certain homogenous group and disadvantage the rest. 
 Perhaps if hierarchical political ideologies had from the beginning assumed the existence of culturally diverse societies, we could have a political system that is fit for governing a diverse population. However, this would mean that societies would have had to be diverse from the beginning of time. This is not the case. Therefore, the best way to move forward is to implement a political system that allows for the government to evolve with society. The current political system that is most likely to evolve with society is democracy as it gives power to the evolving people. While democracy is clearly not perfect, it seems to be the best option at present for governing diverse, modern societies.
     Adam Smiths invisible hand of the market works because, according to Locke, it is human nature to be self-interested - but self-interest is shortsighted. The role of government is to account for positive and negative externalities in market prices (to ensure that the market adequately reflects the true cost or profit from the use of a product to society as a whole) and to guarantee access to certain essential goods and services which are necessary for full participation in a free society and not well served by the self-interested action of markets. Markets are a powerful tool to shape an economy and a society, but they are not infallible, nor should they be universal.
     In The Wealth of Nations, Adam Smith argues for the value and expediency of markets; the idea that everyone working purely towards their own self-interest, in a free society, results in the most efficient allocation of wealth.  A participant in such an economic system "intends only his own gain, and he is in this, as in many other cases, led by an invisible hand to promote an end which was no part of his intention ... By pursuing his own interest he frequently promotes that of the society more effectually than when he really intends to promote it." (Smith) Human self-interest, according to Smith, is the best way to organize an economic system. 
John Locke's ideal government fits well with Adam Smith's ideal economy. According to Locke, "the state that all people are in naturally ... is a state of perfect freedom of acting and disposing of their own possessions and persons as they think fit within the bounds of the law of nature." (Locke) Locke wanted a government that worked to preserve that natural state by allowing individuals as much freedom of choice and action as possible. The problem with a purely Lockean government from an economic perspective is that markets are not infallible; they are effective at determining the value of labor and goods in the abstract, but often fail to correctly factor in large-scale, societal costs to the production or sale of a particular good. Take gasoline: the consumption and use of gas in cars has significant costs - increased carbon emissions, wear on public infrastructure, increased injuries and fatalities in traffic - but because those costs are borne at a societal level, and not on the level of the individual, there is no reason for any given person to take those costs into account when participating in a market for gas. One critical role of the government in the marketplace is to adjust, via subsidies, taxes, and regulations, the price of certain goods (like gas) that are not correctly evaluated by the marketplace. In doing so, the government can price in external factors, perfecting the ideal marketplace, while not compromising the Lockean freedom of choice that is central to their function.
     There are also instances where markets are not the most societally optimal way to apportion supply or determine prices. Essential goods and services like potable water, electricity, internet access, food, and roads, should not be restricted only to those who have the ability to pay market prices for them. In order for a free society to function, everyone in it has to be able to live in it. The goal of a public utility is not to make a profit but to provide an essential service to the public - therefore, they are not subject to the same market pressures that private companies competing to sell a product are. A purely Lockean government, working towards the maximum freedom of personal action could not justify the provision of these essentials in this way because it does necessarily remove some amount of personal choice in both consumption and taxation. 
     According to Jean-Jacque Rousseau, however, this is acceptable. By entering into a society, individuals must accept some loss of their absolute liberty - even if only to allow for the realization of Lockes ideal of absolute ownership of property: What man loses by the social contract is his natural liberty and an unlimited right to everything he tries to get and succeeds in getting; what he gains is civil liberty and the proprietorship of all he possesses. Rousseau posits that in order to exist in any society, we must necessarily give up a bit of personal choice to the government of that society - and in exchange, we gain the ability to act freely within that society. Essential to that freedom of action is the ability to participate in markets freely; how could one do so without access to roads, or electricity, or the internet? Also essential to free participation in an economy is the ability to simply survive - necessitating the socialization of public utilities like water and food. A truly free market must be accompanied by a government that is able to administer those essential services. 
     Markets are so effective because they are driven by pure self-interest; but this is precisely why they cannot be purely free or universal. Above all else, the ideal economic system is the one that best serves the public interest. In a democratic, free society, people must be free to be self-interested, to form markets, and to compete with each other in them; but they must also be free to access essential products at reasonable prices, and must be willing to bear the costs of providing those public goods. This is the social contract that must underlie any truly free marketplace. 
Dear Caesar,
I am Machiavelli and you have been assassinated. Let us go over what you should have done to maintain your power. 
Your goal was to turn a Republic into a Monarchy and while you technically succeeded in the long run, your pride got in the way of you seeing the fruits of your labor. You started on the right track by focusing on gaining the support of the populous instead of the nobles. The worst that a prince may expect from a hostile people is to be abandoned by them; but from hostile nobles he has not only to fear abandonment, but also that they will rise against him; for they, being in these affairs more far-seeing and astute, always come forward in time to save themselves, and to obtain favours from him whom they expect to prevail (Machiavelli, IX). Initially, you enacted many political reforms that were popular with the people: the reformation of the calendar and the redistribution of land in favor of the plebeians and veterans. Even though some of your decisions angered the elites, this was not the cause of your downfall. It was only when the elites were able to turn the nobles against you on account of your greed that you became endangered. 
Of course, many think that your crossing of the Rubicon against the Senates order was the breaking point but you continued to live and gain power for five more years, so this cannot be the sole reason for your downfall. In fact, you could have recovered from this solecism  which was necessary for your ascension   if not for what you did next.
 First, you disrespected the Senate in a very public manner. When the Senate formally bestowed honors upon you in the Temple of Venus Genetrix, you refused to rise for them which disgraced them. ...when for [the nobles] own ambitious ends they shun binding themselves, it is a token that they are giving more thought to themselves than to you, and a prince ought to guard against such, and to fear them as if they were open enemies, because in adversity they always help to ruin him (Machiavelli, IX). You underestimate the power of the Senate and by snubbing them, created a dangerous enemy. Instead, you should have remained humble for as long as possible until you were absolutely sure that your power was secure and even then, you should never create unnecessary enemies. 
Your next mistake lay not in the event itself, but your reaction to it. Two Tribunes removed a diadem that had been placed on your statue. It is unknown whether they put it there in the first place to snub you but it does not matter as the results are the same. The same Tribunes then arrested someone who called out to you as the king. These two events made you highly paranoid and you responded, most rashly, by removing them completely from the Senate. This was a mistake because the Tribunes were seen as a representation of the common people and your removal of them was an attack on the masses. ...one who becomes a prince through the favour of the people ought to keep them friendly, and this he can easily do seeing they only ask not to be oppressed by him (Machiavelli, IX).  Because you oppressed them through their representatives, they were turned against you. This was a fatal error as you had lost the support of both the nobles and the people, which would give your assassins the assurance they needed to dispose of you.  
These two errors combined with further mistakes involving your lack of control over your own ego made you an unwanted ruler. Even though in the end, the Senators underestimated the popularity of your previous reforms, causing the people to rise up against them and favor your successors, this does not erase the fact that you never got the chance to rule absolutely in the way best for an Empire. You should have kept your image as a man of the people and not made the Senators feel threatened. In sacrificing a small portion of your ego, you could have gained absolute power and have done whatever you wanted. I hope in time you will come to see my point of view and the error of your ways. Until that time, I wish you the best.
Yours Truly,
Machiavelli 
Alexander Pichler
Professor Mari OMeara
E400 Great Works of World Literature
28 October 2022
Macbeth: Gangsta Edition - Write Up
In Macbeth: Gangsta Edition, the setting is a 1930s Italian Crime Family (Mafia) mansion inside the Crime Bosss master bedroom. With modern-day culture being fascinated with the life of a gangster and the Mafia, depicted in popular movies like The Godfather, popular games like Mafia, and even gang life being referenced in popular rap songs, this setting should be extremely engaging to a modern audience (Gen Z).
The basic room plan will include red wallpaper, a chandelier, and curtain-closed windows. Set pieces adjunct to the basic room layout include a luxurious king-sized bed, a portrait of Al Capone above the bed, as well as a painting of a dagger on the wall, a safe hidden in a closet, a desk with scattered papers and stacks of money, and a bedside table with wilting white flowers.
The set itself is meant to allude to the room where Duncan was murdered in the original text. In the set design, the red wallpaper is meant to signify the blood on Macbeths hands after he killed Duncan, with the powerful color intentionally appearing dominant to the viewer's eyes. The red wallpaper is meant to emphasize the morass of weight that Macbeth carries after he murders Duncan in Act 2. Indeed, What hands are here! Ha, they pluck out mine eyes./Will all great Neptunes ocean wash this blood/Clean from my hand? (2.2.76-77). Here, Macbeth clearly is shocked at the sight of his hands when he mentions they pluck out mine eyes, and the goal of the red walls is to pluck out the eyes of the viewers as well to better emphasize Macbeths consciousness.
Along with Macbeths desire to become clean, there is also his obsession with his deed staying secret. This can be seen in Act 1 where after Macbeth reveals his desire to kill Duncan, he whispers to himself, Stars, hide your fires;/Let not light see my black and deep desires. (1.4.57-58). In the set design, this aspect of Macbeth will be represented through the use of curtain-closed windows and a hanging chandelier. In the book, the murder of Duncan takes place at night, when the stars are typically shining, so by hiding the room from the stars using curtains, the set alludes to Macbeths desire to hide [the stars] fires (1.4.57). Additionally, to represent Macbeths wish to Let not light see my black and deep desires, the chandelier (a quasi light) will go out at the end of scene 4 to allude to this iconic line.
As for the set pieces themselves, the portrait of Al Capone hung above the bed is meant to reinforce the sets theme of 1930s Mafia, with additional meaning being added with the fact that it is hung above the head of the bed. Since Al Capone was a significant gangster leader/icon, the fact that his portrait is above the bed indicates that whoever sleeps in the bed is also a significant leader/icon (i.e. Duncan). Macbeth himself even mentions Duncans significant leadership as he contemplates killing him. Indeed, this Duncan/Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been/So clear in his great office (1.7.16-18). Here, the phrase Hath borne his faculties so meek refers to Duncans compassionate leadership, and mentioning So clear in his great office alludes to Duncans power. In addition to the portrait of Al Capone, there will be a closet-enclosed safe and desk with scattered papers and stacks of money. These will be located opposite the bed to prevent distracting the audience from Duncans murder scene.
In addition to set pieces that allude to the setting/theme, there are also set pieces that reference Macbeth. The painting of the dagger on the wall is meant to allude to Macbeths famous chimerical hallucination of a dagger pointing to Duncan. To represent this pointing in the set design, the dagger painting will be located adjacent to the bed and the dagger will face the head of the bed, where Duncan will sleep. To the side of the bed will also be a bedside table, holding a vase filled with wilting white flowers. This is meant to reference Lady Macbeths view of Macbeth as too full o th milk of human kindness, which ends up wilting away as Macbeth falls further victim to his desires (1.5.17). The reason why the color white was chosen for the flower is both because white is typically a color that represents purity and goodness, and also because Lady Macbeth explicitly states [she] shame[s]/to wear a heart so white referring to Macbeths goodness (2.2.82-83). As Macbeth kills more and more people, the idea is to have petals fall from the flower one by one until there is only one left. In the final battle scene when the hidebound Macbeth finally dies, the last petal will finally fall.
Works Cited:
Shakespeare, William. Macbeth. Edited by Barbra A. Mowat and Paul
Werstine. Simon and Schuster, 1992.
Altea Bulajewski
Mari OMeara
E400: World Literature
16 December 2022
Lady Macbeth As An Appropriate Tragic Hero
Aristotles Poetics dives deeply into the question of what makes a tragedy truly exceptional, serving to explore and specifically define the subject. The book discusses concepts regarding simple vs. complex plots and the makings of a tragic hero. It defines Greek terms such as anagnorisis and peripeteia in ways understandable to those unfamiliar with the intricacies of Greek theater. The definition of anagnorisis in Greek theater is the recognition in which a character realizes the truth regarding their circumstances, and peripeteia is the reversal in which a characters fate and pre-existing fortune are suddenly reversed. Poetics defines Shakespeares Macbeth as a tragedy. Macbeth is considered a tragic hero on the basis of the fact that his hubris, or heavy sense of pride, is integral to the plot. Additionally, the aforementioned plot devices such as anagnorisis and peripeteia are essential to the storyline. Therefore, the play is subject to scrutiny by Poetics when defining whether or not the storytelling devices employed are effective or not. Lady Macbeth, the wife of the titular character, is portrayed in the play as more masculine than her husband primarily to create a juxtaposition between the two. The definitions of masculine and feminine can be subjective in the context of Shakespeare, as they are primarily societal roles, but Shakespeare makes frequent comparisons to masculinity as equating to war or cruelty, and femininity as equating to being maternal and loving. The aforementioned juxtaposition goes on to portray Macbeth, the play's tragic hero, as weaker or significantly more feminine than the other men and even his own wife. Aristotles Poetics defines appropriateness as a necessary characteristic for a character to have within a tragedy. A characters appropriateness in an Aristotelian context relates to their station and role in life, and whether or not they behave in such a manner appropriate to this station or role. As Lady Macbeth does not behave in a way typical for a woman, in an attempt to make her husband seem to behave in a way atypical for a man, Aristotles argument would mean that Lady Macbeth as a character is fundamentally flawed by Aristotelian standards. However, her masculine behavior and the characteristics that cause her to be such an inappropriate woman go on to further the plot. Both Lady Macbeths feminine and masculine qualities are essential to the storyline of Macbeth, proving that Aristotles definition of the necessity of appropriateness to a plot is not always true.
	Lady Macbeths masculine tendencies, in this instance meaning her penchant for violence and willingness to do what needs to be done for her and her husband to succeed, are necessary for the advancement of the plot. Throughout the course of the play, but especially leading up to the murder of King Duncan, Lady Macbeths character is shown to be distinctly more masculine than that of her husband. The choice to do this on Shakespeares part is very obviously purposeful and meant to be acknowledged by both the audience and Lady Macbeth herself, as she even states in a monologue after learning that the witches prophesied that her husband would become king. She prays that supernatural powers will make her more masculine, even asking the spirits that tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here, And fill me from the crown to the toe top-full/Of direst cruelty [...] Come to my womans breasts/And take my milk for gall, you murdring ministers (Shakespeare 1.5.48-55). Lady Macbeths desire and motivation to kill Duncan is the only reason why he dies, as she believes that Macbeth himself is not able to do it because his nature is too full o th milk of human kindness/To catch the nearest way (Shakespeare 1.5.17-18). Lady Macbeths more masculine characteristics and actions serve an equally beneficial role in the plot of Macbeth as that of her feminine characteristics and actions. It is arguable that the murder of Duncan is the most essential event to the plot of the play, as it results in Macbeths eventual downfall, and this event was furthered almost purely by Lady Macbeths actions.
	It is not only Lady Macbeths masculine traits that contribute to the overarching plot of the play, seeing as her feminine traits also contribute to the tragic value of the plays events. Lady Macbeths slow descent into insanity in the latter acts of the play proves that she has additional importance to the story. She doesnt only act as a contrasting device to better showcase her husbands lack of masculinity, but her state of delusion and vivid hallucinations towards the end of the play begin to create the effect of catharsis for the viewer. In the Introduction to the Poetics, the translator Malcolm Heath states that the relief that katharsis brings is pleasurable (Aristotle xxxix). If the experience of Lady Macbeths feelings of anguish or pain brings pleasure to the audience, her expressions of emotion, such as when she asks herself, What, will these hands neer be clean? while hallucinating Duncans blood on her hands, then shes creating a feeling of catharsis for the viewer (Shakespeare 5.1.45). This exacerbates her feminine qualities, as expressions of emotion are traditionally understood to be a more feminine rather than masculine concept. Additionally, Aristotle states that suffering, an action that involves destruction or pain is important to a tragic plot (Aristotle 19). Lady Macbeths intense expression of pain contributes greatly to the tragic plot. Macbeth never really experiences intense bouts of emotional pain on stage in the way that Lady Macbeth does. The plethora of scenes in which she experiences vivid hallucinations and exhibits signs of severe psychological damage because of her own actions provide much more catharsis and clear demonstrations of emotional pain and suffering than Macbeth, whose only real suffering is displayed through physical harm, and the lengths that hes driven to by his ambitions.
	Lady Macbeths duality of both masculine and feminine actions and character traits is innately defiant to Aristotles writings on appropriateness. In Poetics, Aristotle discusses the appropriateness of the actions of various characters based on their station in life. How appropriately a character behaves is determined by their ability to perform the actions commonly attributed to their role. In the instance of Lady Macbeth, Aristotle provides the example that, as for character, there are four things to aim at [...] it is possible for a character to be courageous, but for this to be an inappropriate way for a woman to display courage or cleverness (Aristotle 24). When attempting to create a quality plot with characters that advance the story, Aristotle claims that appropriateness is one of the four most important things to emulate within a tragedy. However, by this metric of appropriateness, Shakespeare does not abide by Aristotles guidelines, creating an inappropriate woman in the form of Lady Macbeth. Yet Lady Macbeths character does not hinder the plot. She furthers it by providing contrast to make the character of Macbeth seem more extreme. Additionally, she brings emotional catharsis to the audience, which brings pleasure, and she moves the plot forward by way of encouraging Macbeth to kill Duncan and become king. As Lady Macbeths lack of appropriateness is only beneficial to the overarching plot of Macbeth, Aristotles claim regarding character is incorrect and not universal.
	Aristotle does not think very highly of the concept of a woman behaving of her own volition, or, as previously stated, displaying traits of courage or cleverness. Perhaps some part of his belief system can be attributed to the social hierarchy of Ancient Greece regarding the roles of women in politics, music, art, theatre, writing, philosophy, etc., but Aristotles writings on the role of women in tragedy throughout the Poetics have been largely exclusionary. To claim that a woman needs to take on an appropriate role in tragedy is to effectively exclude her from the narrative of the story, or to dilute her to play a role only of a wife or a mother, which typically leaves very little room for the complex emotions that are typically so prevalent within tragedy. Lady Macbeths tragic role is unique from other women in tragedy, such as Jocasta, in that Lady Macbeths own emotional pain is personal to herself and her own actions and is not exclusively used as a tool of recognition. Thats not to say that Lady Macbeth is significantly explicated as a character in her own right outside of her marriage to Macbeth. Still, at least the audiences perception of Lady Macbeths emotional pain is not overshadowed, as is Jocastas by her husband-sons recognition and subsequent emotional downfall. Shakespeares unique portrayal of a female character in tragedy, while likely not intended to be feminist in any way, is still a unique and refreshing divergence from the typical watering-down of female characters within classic tragedies as glorified plot devices for the male tragic heroes to either be married to, be sons of, or, in the case of Jocasta, both.
Works Cited
Aristotle. Poetics. Translated by Malcolm Heath. Penguin Books. 1996.
Shakespeare, William. Macbeth. Edited by Barbara A. Mowat and Paul Werstine, Simon and 
Schuster, 1992.
Our Services: Quantifying Let-7 and APL-1
ELISA:
Epoch Inc.
Discover your true age with the power of Let 7 and APL-1 Testing!
What is Let-7?
The Let-7 gene codes for the Let-7 microRNA. First discovered in C.Elegans, the Let 7 gene is expressed more in aging tissues and organelles. The Let-7 microRNA also participates in multiple pathways that regulate the aging process; it affects tissue stem cell function, metabolism, immune function, and aging-related diseases. One such aging-related disease is Alzheimers Disease.
What is APL-1:
Let-7 microRNA controls the regulation of the APL-1 gene. APL- 1 and its homolog APP code for proteins responsible for one of the main components of the brain plaque that causes Alzheimer's Disease. Monitoring APL-1 levels can therefore help inform us of Let-7 expression levels and also help us understand a patient's risk for Alzheimer's.
Why Quantify Let-7 & APL-1?
The expression of Let-7 is very important to quantify and monitor because it can indicate a person's susceptibility to aging-related diseases. This information is vital as it informs the precautions one must take for their health.
Our Techniques:
Why ELISA:
Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) is a method for detecting and quantifying proteins. We use the ELISA technique to quantify levels of APL-1, the Alzheimer's Amyloid precursor protein in Caenorhabditis elegans related to the human -amyloid precursor protein.
Antigen Detection ELISA Technique:
Bind antigen to the well:
Add the patients sample to the well in a microplate. This sample contains many proteins but might not contain the antigen of interest.
Incubate the sample to allow proteins in the sample to bind through hydrophobic interactions to the plastic well.
Add wash buffer to the well to remove any unbound sample and block the remaining available binding surfaces of the plastic wells. This step prevents anything from binding non-specifically to the wells later in the procedure.
Add primary antibody:
Add primary antibodies specific to the antigen of interest to the wells. If the antigen is present, the primary antibodies will bind to the epitope of the antigen fixed to the bottom of the wells. Incubate the sample.
Add wash buffer to the wells to remove all unbound antibodies (if the primary antibody didnt bind to the antigen, then it will be washed away).
Add secondary antibody:
Add a solution of enzyme-linked secondary antibodies (specific for the Fc region of the primary antibody) to the well. These secondary antibodies come from another animal and bind to the primary antibodies that are present.
Incubate the sample.
Add wash buffer to the wells to remove any unbound secondary antibodies.
Enzyme-Substrate Reaction:
Substrates specific to the enzymes linked to the secondary antibodies are added in each well. If a secondary antibody is present, the interaction between the enzyme on the secondary antibody and the substrate generates color. If there was no antigen, the well will remain clear.
The color can be read with the naked eye or quantified with an electric plate reader.
Supplies Needed:
Quantifying Let-7 Micro RNA: Northern Blot
FISH
Quantifying APL-1 Protein: Indirect Elisa
Genome-Wide:
RNA Sequencing
12-well microplate Patients sample Primary antibody Secondary antibody
Wash buffer
Colorgenic enzyme substrate/chromogen Positive control
Negative control
Example Data:
The blue color indicates that the protein of interest (APL-1) is present (the sample is positive), while no color indicates that APL-1 is not present (the sample is negative). The brighter the color, the more concentrated the target protein is.
Northern Blot	FISH	RNA Sequencing
Northern Blot is a technique used to detect levels of RNA. It is a useful strategy when both presence and quantity of RNA need to be known.
Technique
1)MicroRNA is extracted from cells in a blood or tissue sample by lysing the cell, adding chloroform, ethanol, and eluting the aqueous RNA at the top.
2)The sample is run through gel electrophoresis, separating the microRNA
by size.
3)The gel is transferred to a solid, nylon, positively charged, RNA-binding membrane through blotting. The capillary blotting system involves a transfer buffer to lower temperature, and weights, paper towels, and a blotting paper above the gel membrane. The results of the gel are drawn upwards into the nylon membrane. The two are linked together by UV light.
4)Separately, a special fluorescent tag is added to an LNA probe. The LNA probe is a modified DNA probe where the 2 oxygen is locked and attached to the 4 carbon. This probe is more sensitive to microRNA than a DNA probe.
5)The LNA Probe with tag attached is hybridized to the RNA on the membrane.
6)The probe glows when in contact with microRNA and is visible through
X-ray. Densitometry can find concentration levels, which denote more or less microRNA. The placement on the gel denotes base pair size.
Supplies Needed:
-Patient Sample, Lysis and Binding Buffer, Chloroform, Ethanol, Elution Buffer, Electrophoresis Machine and Gel, Positively charged nylon membrane, Transfer
RNA-fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is a tool to detect, localize, and quantify RNAs of interest in the cell.
Technique
1.Sample Fixation and Permeabilization:
a.Kill normal life functions in the cell tissue and stabilize the structure of the tissue using 4% paraformaldehyde (fixation).
b.Use detergent (Tween-20) to dissolve lipids from cell membranes and thereby make the cells RNA accessible to the hybridization probes.
2.Probe Hybridization:
a.Oligonucleotide probes complementary to the RNA sequence of interest and tagged with a fluorescent label are applied to the fixed and permeabilized sample in solution. Diffusion kinetics allows for probes to enter the cell.
b.Specialized hybridization buffers are used to increase the chances of successful probe binding.
c.Incubate the cell with the probes.
3.Washing:
a.Washes move from higher to lower salt concentration and from lower to higher temperature to remove nonspecifically bound probes and background signal.
4.Imaging:
a.Signals are visualized using fluorescent microscopy.
Supplies Needed:
Paraformaldehyde

RNA sequencing both sequences and quantifies expression levels of RNA across the whole transcriptome. We can use the data collected from RNA sequencing to determine if the Let-7 gene is turned on or off and what its level of transcription is.
Technique:
1.RNA Extraction: Isolate the microRNA by lysing the cell, adding chloroform and ethanol, and eluting the aqueous RNA at the top.
2.Reverse transcription: Use reverse transcriptase to convert the single-
stranded RNA into more stable, double-stranded cDNA (complementary DNA).
3.Adapted ligation: Add sequencing adaptors to each end of the fragments. These adaptors contain functional elements which allow the sequencing machine to recognize the fragments and allow different samples to be sequenced at the same time
4.Amplification: PCR amplify the library. Only the fragments with sequencing adaptors are amplified.
5.Sequencing: The sequencing machine attaches probes to the first base in
each fragment. Each probe has a color associated with a certain nucleotide. The machine repeats with each following nucleotide sequence, taking pictures as it works to record the color.
6.Compare: The highest quality reads from the sequencing are aligned next to a known sequence, and counted. The difference between a genome and a
buffer with formamide, Capillary blotting paper, Paper Towels, Glass Plate, Blotting Weights, UV light, LNA probe, X ray machine
Tween-20 detergent Oligonucleotide probes complementary to the Let-7
Specialized hybridization buffers
Wash buffer Fluorescence microscope
sample indicates which parts are/are not being expressed.
Supplies Needed:
Example Data:
microRNA sequence.
Example Data:
Chloroform Ethanol
Reverse Transcriptase

Sequencing adaptors PCR machine Sequencing machine
Example Data:
Northern Blot VS. FISH
Although Northern Blot and FISH are both methods to detect RNA, they vary in purpose. Northern Blot can be used to detect the presence and quantity of RNA in a sample. This is useful if you are testing for any presence of Let-7, or testing for how much Let-7 is in a certain sample. This would be useful if you wanted to quantify the difference between Let-7 expression in children and adults. FISH, on the other hand, can also give visual cues to indicate where in the cell the RNA is. This is useful in testing for the Let-7 microRNA because the location can indicate which pathways the Let-7 is involved in. For example, a FISH test for Let-7 microRNA could show a positive result on the chromosomal location of the APL-1 gene, indicating that the microRNA is active on the APL-1 gene at that time.Saint Petersburg Review
Editor in chief: Ian Iserman
Op Ed: On the state of St. Petersburg
Saint Petersburg, its a lovely city. Lots of nice architecture, good bars, and the most recent ideas. However we have had some problems here recently. There has been an uptick in deaths, including one of our dear citizens to a carriage.11 We need to be cautious, and with this, also be more vigilant. Without everyone working together, we could descend into a city of crime. We need to act as one, and prevent this fine city from taking a downturn. We need to take care of our neighbors, and like Ive seen one person do, despite being borderline destitute himself, offering to pay for a womans ride who desperately needed it to get home safely12. That is an example of kindness that this city needs. If even one percent of everyone acted as generous as he did, this city would be one of the best to live in in the entirety of Russia. So we need to keep together, and keep helping each other like wed want to be helped ourselves. Only together can we make Saint Petersburg a better place.
Daffodils to symbolize hope for a brighter future
Classified Ad:
Ax for sale: one half of a ruble. Freshly cleaned. Good for chopping wood and other hard things
Business review: Alyonas Pawn Shop1
Rating: Two stars
This pawn shop has a nice location in Saint Petersburg, however, it isnt the best organized. The trinkets are everywhere and rather expensive. However the worst part is dealing with the owner Alyona. Working with her is so infuriating, that you could just strangle her. She offers way less than what other dealers would, and her terms on the loan if you want to buy your item back are extreme. Personally I would say avoid this place unless youre desperate.
Begin essay one
	This piece is on the subject of crime. With crime comes morals, and there are two kinds of crime, legal and moral. With legal crime, there are the laws of a nation, city,or state and breaking them entails punishment. There are also moral crimes, which are violations of the moral code. With these, the punishment is self-inflicted, with the effect of the punishment not being on ones physical life, but ones mental wellbeing. There are two classes of people in this world, the ordinary, and the extraordinary. Society should be divided by those two groups, with the ordinary ... material serving solely for the purpose of reproducing the species.2 The ordinary are just a class of people that only exist since the species needs them for numbers, and not because they give anything meaningful to society. Theyre those who would have to do things like manual labor, and other menial tasks that the other group, the extraordinaries, shouldnt have to do. Meanwhile the extraordinary people contain ...those who possess the gift or talent of uttering some new word in their milieu.3. These extraordinary people are the rulers, the thinkers of society, and to have society advance, they need to be catered to. This ties into the laws as well. The ordinary people should be beholden to all laws, because since they would not make any meaningful contributions to society, they would need to be restricted, so society could get the maximum benefit from those who are extraordinary.  However, with the extraordinary people,  that is, not that theyre able, but who have every right to commit any kind of outrages and crimes, and that the laws do not apply to them.4  This is because those people need to not have any barriers to contributing to society. The extraordinary people are those who build society up, and allow us to transcend the current state to a new one, for example Newton or Napoleon. For example In my opinion, if the discoveries of Kepler and Newton could in no way have become known to people other than through the sacrifice of the lives of one, ten, a hundred, and so on people who interfered with their discoveries Newton had the right, and was even obligated to  eliminate those ten or a hundred people in order to make his discoveries known to all humanity.5 This is because if the ordinary person gets in the way of the extraordinary, theyre blocking societys progress. As a society, crime should be justifiable and almost necessary if its to advance society as a whole. Since laws exist to protect society, they should be broken to advance society as a whole, and those who are advancing society shouldnt have to worry about them at all. As a society, progress is what matters, and I think it should be obtained no matter the cost. However the extraordinary person would probably feel remorse about the harm done to make progress. Just because someone should be in the right both legally and morally, that doesnt mean they wont put a burden on themselves. However the lamentation of ones actions is part of their life, and with that, they might say something like I killed myself, not the old woman!6 The burden of their actions might just harm them more than it should, because even if they act in the greater good, they will feel they did wrong. That is just part of human nature, for both the ordinary and the extraordinary. So even if they have every right to do what they did, it would be normal for them to feel remorse. With the two groups of people, the ordinary and the extraordinary, there should be two standards, so that society as a whole can progress. The only burdens on the progress made by the extraordinary should be those that are self inflicted, since justice should recognize progress.
Begin Essay 2
Raskolnikov, I believe that there shouldnt be an ordinary and extraordinary class of people. You talk about how there is both legal and moral crime. That is true, I will give you that. However legal crime should be heavily enforced. Without it, we wouldnt be a society, but a bunch of people fighting each other. And also, according to you, and your beliefs on the ordinary versus the extraordinary, Ordinary people must live in obedience and do not have the right to overstep the law, because, dont you see, theyre ordinary. But extraordinary people have the right to commit all sorts of crimes and to overstep precisely because theyre extraordinary.7 If extraordinary people were breaking every law, we might as well not have any laws to begin with. Laws exist to protect the populace just as much as they do to keep them in order. And if an extraordinary person breaks those laws, their findings would take longer to be accepted, if theyre accepted at all. Correct me if Im wrong, but if Newton killed someone to get his findings published, they would probably be disregarded, until someone else, who didnt violate the laws, came to the same conclusion. However, if youre correct, Of course, Im prepared to bow down before them, but youll agree, it would be terrible if there were very many of them, wouldnt it?8 If there were tons of people who were extraordinary, there might as well not be any laws. We could accept were ordinary, and follow the law, and be heavily restricted. But I am very sure that some people would call themselves extraordinary and use that to their advantage, and hinder society as a whole. With this designation, the idea of not letting laws pertain to the extraordinary, wouldnt progress society but hinder it. And you might think that after all this, and with this essay ... that you might also have considered yourself, even the tiniest bit, to be an extraordinary man uttering some new word, in the sense that youre using it9 However extraordinary is determined by history not by those with any new discoveries. Some discoveries are irrelevant to society, or outright wrong, so why should people get to be above others over something insignificant? Besides, after all, ... who among us in Holy Rus doesnt consider himself a Napoleon these days?10 If everyone considered themselves extraordinary, nobody would be. Extraordinary means to be above the average by a lot, and I know that everyone wants to call themselves above average, so that would just raise the average instead. With the whole situation, it would be much better to hold everyone, extraordinary or not, to the confines of the law, and then let the historians sort out who is extraordinary and who isnt.
1.Page 9.
2.Page 286
3.Page 286
4.Page 284
5.Page 285
6.Page 461
7.Page 284
8.Page 288
9.Page 291
10.Pages 291-292
11.Page 196
12.Page 52
George Hosein
Mari OMeara 
English 400
27 March 2023
On Crime by Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov
How is it that the most horrible atrocities are performed? How can any man stomach the murder of innocents by his own hands? The truth is, he cannot, at least not sanely. Most people who commit a crime become infected by a psychological illness, both before and after the crime has been committed. Anyone who escapes this illness is another type of man altogether who was put on this Earth for humanitys progression. 
 It must be stated that for the purposes of this article, we are focusing on murder and other similarly horrendous acts.  Although it may seem crude, we must admit that the majority of people consists of conservative people by nature, well-behaved, who live in obedience and like being obedient. In my opinion, theyre even obligated to be obedient because that is their destiny, and theres nothing humiliating about it for them.[1] They are always men of the present'' and their goal is to preserve the world and increase its population.[2]  We must examine how any ordinary man could come to the decision to commit a crime in the first place, as this certainly occurs, In spite of their inborn inclination to obey, by a certain playfulness of nature, not denied even to a cow, an extremely large number of them like to imagine themselves advanced people. But in my opinion, there can be no real danger herebecause these people never get very far. Of course, they can sometimes be beaten for their fervor, as to remind them of their rightful place, but nothing more. You dont even need anyone to carry out the punishment: theyll beat themselves up because they are so well behaved. Some will provide this service to others, and some will do it to themselves They impose various public punishments on themselves and it turns out beautifully and instructive.[3] Most peoples natural desire to fit in with humanity and behave conservatively will, in the end, overpower their desire to promote their own wants through crime or any satisfaction they gained as a result of their crime. This is simply the nature of the world, and it is a good thing, as the stability of the majority has allowed our species to exist for so many years. 
Finally, it is time to address the few men who are altogether unaffected by the psychological sufferings of crime, those we call the extraordinaries. In short, extraordinary men are Those who possess the gift or talent of uttering some new word in their milieu.[4] Their purpose in life is to move the world forward and lead it to its goal.[5] It would quickly become a problem if there were too many men trying to move the world forward as they would no doubt come into conflict with each other and in the end, get nowhere. It is lucky that, In general, an unusually small number of people are born, and even strangely few, with a new idea, or who are capable of even uttering something new.[6] Now before the entire world breaks out in panic, I dont insist in any way that extraordinary people must and are always obligated to commit all sorts of outragesI merely imply that the extraordinary man has the rightthat is, not the official right, but he himself has the right to permit his conscience to overstepvarious obstacles, and only in the case that the execution of his idearequires it.[7] While this may seem a shocking idea, let us look into the past to those who changed the world forever. At least the lawgivers and trailblazers of humanity, beginning with the ancients, continuing with Lycurgus, the Solons, Mohammeds, Napoleons, and so forth, each and every one of them, were criminals, just by the virtue of the fact that in propagating new laws, they were at the same time destroying the old laws viewed as sacred by society and handed down by their fathers.[8] These individuals shed innocent blood and had many enemies when they were alive, but are now venerated and revered. To be clear, it is not that extraordinary men are heartless: Pain and suffering are always obligatory for someone with broad intellect and deep feeling. Truly great individuals, it seems to me, must experience great sorrow in the world.[9] Rather, it is that their pain is necessary for the progression of humanity. It is the extraordinary mans solemn duty, given by nature, to change the world, no matter what it takes. 
In summary, any crime committed by an ordinary man is the result of a psychological illness that will become his downfall and reveal his criminal acts to all. In contrast, the few extraordinary men avoid this illness because their crimes are done for the sake of the new word, which is vital to humanity as a whole. I hope these words will be taken most seriously, as history strongly supports this idea even though they seem appalling. 
In Response to On Crime by Porfiry Petrovich
My friend, Rodion Romanovich, has argued above that crime is a disease that plagues the mind of the criminal. While this is fascinating in and of itself, his argument that there are certain people above all laws is a most original idea. In light of recent events, I would like to take another look at his essay and offer my own humble opinion. 
On Crimes main folly was that it claimed men are capable of escaping guilt. Truly, all men are of the same fundamental nature and will succumb to it no matter how clever they may be. Let us consider one of these few elites. A young person, carried away by his own wit, overstepping all obstacles... never even thinks about [human nature]. Lets suppose that he, that is, this man, our special cases,... will lie brilliantly, in the cleverest way; this might seem to be a triumph, and he could enjoy the fruits of his wit, but, all of a sudden, bang, he falls into a faint in the most interesting and scandalous place. He lied incomparably well, but he couldnt rely on his own nature.Another time, distracted by the playfulness of his wit, hell begin to make fun of the man who suspects him; hell grow pale, as if on purpose, as if playing a game, but he grows pale in a too natural a way, too much like it was the truth, and once again hes suggested an idea![10] This is the downfall of all men who believe themselves to be beyond nature, it will claim them in the end. Nature will conquer all, even the smuggest and most clever of men. There are none meant to rule the world and usher in new words, it is all just luck and circumstances. 
Rodion Romanovichs second error was that he assumed he could make himself into an extraordinary man. Even if his little theory were true (which I can barely fathom), he never had what it took to embody whatever innate prowess the extraordinary may have. It is always telling when a places himself at the top of his theory about humanity. While Rodion Romanovich never directly claimed to be one of the highest men[11], who among us in the Holy Rus doesnt consider himself a Napoleon these days? [12]And, nevertheless, he did admit to thinking of himself as extraordinary when I pressed him directly.[13] Of course, as we all know from the recent news, even Rodion Romanovich himself could not escape human nature, as it ate him away until he relented to confession. If the great envisioner of this system himself could not become extraordinary, who among us could even dream of changing the world through force and conviction? The idea only leads to misplaced pride and, ultimately, to great suffering. 
Now that dear Rodion Romanovich is suffering for his crime, I can only hope it will cleanse him of the guilt that he tried to, most foolishly, escape from. He is truly an intelligent man with deep, hidden compassion. In his new life, I pray he will productively use his cleverness for the betterment of all. 
------------------------------------------------------------
[1] (286)
[2] (287) 
[3] (288)
[4] (286)
[5] (287)
[6] (288)
[7] (285)
[8] (285)
[9] (290-1)
[10] (376)
[11] ...I dont consider myself a Mohammed or a Napoleonor anyone of that sort (291). 
[12] (292)
[13] Well then, when you were composing your little articlecould it possibly be the case, heh-heh, that you might also have considered yourself, even the tiniest bit, to be an extraordinary man uttering some new word, in the sense that youre using it.Isnt that so? Very possibly, Rasklonilolv replied contemptuously (291)
Sarah Epelbaum
George Heinricks
H420
16 February 2023
Essay on Role of Education
In order to fully answer the question of how to achieve the ideal education system, we must first define what an ideal education entails, and how this educational model will contribute to a better society. Does a more equitable education lead to a more equal society, and should that even be the goal? Such questions have been plaguing philosophers for centuries, from ancient Greece to present day. Based on the diversity of educational models around the world, it is clear that we have yet to come up with a definitive answer, and empirical evidence seems to show that education systems reflect back the values of their given societies. Thus, to answer this question of education, I will first define an ideal society, then explain how an education system can lead to that goal.
My understanding of an ideal society is one that permits freedom of thought and promotes education to all people. I will admit that I am biased towards western ideas of freedom and education, as they were laid out by Socrates, because I was born in the United States, and come from a European background. If I was born in a more homogenous, collectivist society perhaps my framework for freedom would be different. However, I believe that the fundamental freedoms of press and speech, rights to assemble and to question our government must form the basis of an ideal society. Such a society would be more akin to a democracy, which Socrates warns of, due to its tendency to lead people into submitting themselves to the views of a candidate who could later morph into a tyrant. I want to push back on Socrates idea of an ideal society, because it focuses more on the knowledge and wisdom of the king or ruling class than the ideals and rights of the general population. A wise and just ruler is indeed a key component to creating an ideal society, but by placing too much emphasis on the ruler, there is little protection of the people, in case this ruler becomes tyrannical and unjust (a powerful ruler with strong convictions can often end up on the opposite side of his original ideas). Socrates claims in the Republics sixth book that until the philosopher class gains mastery of a city, there will be no respite from evils for either city or citizens, and the constitution we have been describing in our discussion will never be completed in practice. This paints a very black and white picture of the necessity of having a philosopher king, and I wouldnt trust an unchecked class of people to run a government, with minimal involvement from the general public. Socrates' discussion on the proper model of education is based on how to cultivate wise, virtuous leaders with the ultimate goal of creating a ruling class. However, the glaring problem in this model is that even these highly educated people are susceptible to greed and corruption which would set the entire system off balance, because (according to Socrates) this ruling class is the most virtuous and wise, and the citizens are generally not due to lack of education. All this to say, that an ideal society would have power spread more equally across the population, thus necessitating a more egalitarian education system. 
As for the method and structure of education, the Socratic method, which promotes questioning and disregarding previous assumptions, would be beneficial in creating an educated and thoughtful society. Because the youth will learn to regularly question facts and opinions, they will be more resistant to tactics of brainwashing and manipulation coming from the government. Societies with governments that need strict cooperation from its citizens, whether because of war, economic prospects, or any other reason, value timeliness, rote memorization and rigid structure in their education system. By discouraging self-discovery and avoiding examination of pertinent topics, this generation will be more likely to accept their role prescribed by society, instead of questioning its fundamental structure. This is opposite of what an ideal society should be; one that encourages its people to question the actions of leaders and speak up. To aid the youth in finding the truth for themselves, Socrates encourages a more free and individualized education, stating, calculation, geometry, and all the preparatory education that serves as preparation for dialectic must be offered to them in childhoodand not in the shape of compulsory instruction [...] no compulsory instruction remains in the soul. He also believes in letting children discover their calling through play instead of pushing a certain career onto them. This is the method that public education should adopt, and is in the best interest of the general public. 
However, this system is not in the benefit of the government because as I explained, it is harder to persuade and unify a more diverse, skeptical population than a uniform, loyal population. Another problem that may arise is that by moving towards a less standardized curriculum, it may be difficult to come to any consensus and enact change due to conflicting viewpoints and lack of an established knowledge base. Allan Bloom, an American academic, explained that he spoke against removing class requirements in universities because this core curriculum was a threadbare reminiscence of the unity of knowledge and provided an obstinate little hint that there are some things one must know about if one is to be educated. This idea of what an educated person must know is very subjective, so although I do not agree with his view I dont fully disagree because it depends on the specific classes he is proposing are essential. In conclusion, although a more Socratic, free  education model is beneficial to the individual, it can bring difficulties during times of unity and create more friction within society.  
As to the question of how to achieve such a system of education, pedagogy and quality of teachers would need to be a priority, and thus this profession must be desirable in society. The fact that a man who famously said that he knows nothing, is seen as one of the greatest teachers in history, shows that ideal teachers must have a self awareness of their position in relation to their students, as a person through which students should ultimately learn more about themselves. In a practical sense, there is not one way to run this type of education model, and it will depend on the time and context. 
Works Cited
Bloom, Allan. Closing of the American Mind: How Higher Education Has Failed Democracy and Impoverished the Souls of Today's Students. Simon & Schuster, 2012.
Plato. A Plato Reader: Eight Essential Dialogues. Edited by C. D. C. Reeve, Hackett Publishing Company, 2012.
George Elose Hosein
Brian Crawford
English 400
22 November 2022
The Inescapable Spiral of Fear
Every person experiences fear as a part of being human. But when the fear of having our self-image shattered becomes the driving force behind all our actions, it can drag us into becoming what we fear most. According to Aristotle, an ancient Greek philosopher, every tragedy stems from one fatal error, known as hamartia. He wrote, It follows that a well-formed plot [ ]must involve a change[]from good fortune to bad fortune  and this must be due not to depravity but to a serious error (Poetics 21). Sophocless Oedipus the King follows such a pattern. Oedipus, who has become king after saving Thebes from a Sphynx as the previous king, Laius, was murdered on the road, marries the widowed queen Jocasta. From a prophet, Oedipus learns that the plague, which is wreaking havoc on his kingdom, will end only when Laiuss killer is brought to justice. Both he and Jocasta had separately heard prophecies that they strove to avoid. While seeking to uncover the killer, Oedipus discovered that both he and Jocasta are vassals of their joint prophecies. Eventually, Oedipus realizes that Jocasta is his true mother and the stranger Oedipus has killed on the road is Laius, his father, fulfilling both the prophecies. Oedipuss Aristotelian error is not so much his killing his father or marrying his mother or even his obliviousness as it is a psychological failing that appears repeatedly, driving him to discover the truth that dooms him. The root cause of Oedipuss downfall is his need to defend his worldview, which holds that he evaded his fate through moral actions and is secure in his rule. Oedipuss fear of being wrong makes him insecure in his worldview and so he tries to get others to assure him before dismissing them entirely at any form of criticism.
Towards the beginning, Oedipus learns that the only way to stop the plague is to bring Laiuss murder to justice. Oedipus pesters the prophet Tiresias to reveal the killers identity. Tiresias hesitates but finally names Oedipus as the killer. This declaration threatens Oedipus and awakens his fear. He pressures Tiresias to repeat himself and, upon hearing the same statement, dismisses Tiresiass validity as a prophet. Oedipuss fear of being a person who would commit such evil as killing a king triggers his outward anger and hidebound attitude. Oedipus lashes out at Tiresias saying, OEDIPUS: Out with it again! TIRESIAS: I say you are the murderer you hunt. OEDIPUS: That obscenity, twice  by god, youll pay. TIRESIAS: Shall I say more, so you can really rage? OEDIPUS: Much as you want. Your words are nothing  futile (Oedipus 411-7). Tiresias states that Oedipus is a murderer because this goes directly against Oedipuss view of himself, and he panics and launches obloquy at him. If his reaction were merely based on his needing to be right, Oedipus would have calmly shut Tiresias down because there would be no threat to his position. The rashness and abruptness reflected in his voice are symptomatic of the panic in his head.  Oedipus hunts for the truth, but upon hearing an opinion that casts him as evil, invalidates the speaker entirely. In truth, his fear of being an immoral and discredited person in the eyes of his subjects causes him to act as such, bullying and discrediting those around him. He will turn to other characters in a vain attempt to soothe his fears and confirm what he wishes to believe, only to be driven to further distress as the play progresses. 
Oedipus, now unsatisfied with Tiresiass prophecy, turns the blame towards Creon, his brother-in-law, and uncle, who sent Tiresias. Oedipus accuses Creon of treason, which Creon rebuffs, telling Oedipus to check his anger. Oedipus then dismisses Creons criticisms by calling in his own position in the hierarchy as king, stating that he is above any criticism. Oedipus needs Creon to be treacherous for Tyresiuss accusations to be wrong to prove that Oedipus is safe from his fears. CREON: Look, if you think crude, mindless stubbornness such a gift, youve lost your sense of balance. OEDIPUS: If you think you can abuse a kinsman, then escape the penalty, youre insane (Oedipus 615-8). Again, Oedipuss emotional reaction gives away his fear. Without the fear that Creon may be right, Oedipus could have dismissed his claims and approached the situation calmly. Truly, it is his insecurity in his own beliefs rather than his stubbornness that prompts this rash response. Oedipus invokes his pride to rebuff Creons criticism because he fears that if Creon is right about his mental state, Tiresias must be right about him being a murderer, which would shatter his self-image as seen by how fragile his mental state becomes at merely the idea. Oedipuss fear is so great that he will turn on his close allies and friends and accuse them of horrible motivations before he looks inwards to see whether others warnings or criticisms have merit. Fear turns him into this tyrant that pushes those who are trying to help him away, which will eventually leave him alone to finally grasp the truth of his situation. 
Oedipus then turns to Jocasta in search of answers. As they each are apprised of more details about the others past, Jocasta begins to suspect the truth: that Oedipus killed Laius and is her son. She tries to stop him from searching for answers, but he is so caught up in his own view of things that he cannot suspect what she knows and throws her off. Jocasta is driven by hubris, which has led her to believe she could escape fate by killing her child and consider divination a sham. When specific elements of their stories match, Jocasta makes the corollary before Oedipus because her fear stems not from being wrong, but from losing the status quo. Oedipus, now reacting from an emotional fight response, cannot comprehend why Jocasta would want to obfuscate the truth and pushes onwards while alienating himself from one of his final allies.  JOCASTA: Oh no, listen to me, I beg you, dont do this. OEDIPUS: Listen to you? No more. I must know it all, must see the truth at last (Oedipus 1168-9). Oedipuss dismissal of his own wife, the person he should trust most, shows how insidious his fear has become. Unlike Tireseius, Jocasta begs Oedipus to trust his initial perception and leave his fear behind. If Oedipus were merely hubristic, he would accept Jocastas pleas and continue his life unflustered. When he tells Jocasta that he must know all, he reveals his fear of being wrong.  Oedipuss need to confirm his reality out of his fear of the truth blinds him and causes him to lash out at the people close to him who attempt to give him a way to live peacefully.  Because he is blinded by fear, he does not listen to the advice of others, even to someone as close as his wife. He charges forward, desperate to confirm what he wants his reality to be. Without anyone left to temper him and offer an escape, Oedipus is left to continue angrily pushing forwards and eventually ends up exposing his worst fears. 
Oedipus so desperately wants to be seen as a virtuous and just king to hold onto his power. The very idea that he could lose his power terrifies him and in emotional knee-jerk reactions, he attempts to confirm his reality and silence any other opinion. In the end, every action he takes toward this goal leads to the confirmation of his worst fear and strips him of all power.  This core error resonates because we are all self-centered animals. We pity Oedipus because, like him, we are so trapped in our individual view of the world that any perspective that undermines our perception, especially if it threatens our social standing, is utterly terrifying. Even though the audience can see the truth of Oedipuss horrible deeds long before he realizes it himself, this pity does not diminish because we, as humans, feel an affinity with his fear and how he sees the world. Oedipus should be read as a cautionary tale about fear. From this story, we should hurry to look inwards and confront the areas of our lives that are motivated by fear. Throughout our lifetimes, we all face criticism which can be especially hard to take if we are told we are the root of our problems. Instead of taking out this fear on the other person, we should try to step outside ourselves and examine whether our internal fear of having something undesired confirmed is the source of our anger. Even though Oedipuss destiny was fait accompli, his story should direct us to take a hard look inwards and reconcile ourselves with the harsh truths we may be avoiding, or doom ourselves to an equally harsh fate.
Works Cited
Aristotle. Aristotle Poetics. Translated by Malcolm Heath, Penguin Group, 1996. 
Sophocles. Sophocles - the Three Theban Plays: Antigone, Oedipus the King, Oedipus at Colonus. Translated by Robert Fagles, Penguin Group, 1984. 
In a journaling style, reflect on what This is Water Links to an external site. means, what it might mean to how you leave high school, and how you might engage with its lessons in your arch and gallery projects.
Earlier in the reading the first word that came to mind was sonder. That is, the recognition that you are not the main character of the universe. This word speaks to one of the main themes of the talk which was awarenessthis is one of my arch stones, evenin that awareness requires active thought, as opposed to passive thought. This same active thought is what is required to change your default thinking, to push yourself to not grovel. Another idea that came to mind when I was reading this was habit-formation. Wallace recognizes that trying to actively not be self-centered is incredibly difficult, yet, as someone, like Wealth of Nations Adam Smith who thinks that laziness can be a source of innovation, I think that the desire to make difficult things easier is good. This is the primary reason why I like keyboards and human input devices and peripherals of all varieties, because it makes the task of working with a computer easier. So, if we can somehow turn our default settings from a place of self-centeredness, through the crucible that is habit-formation, into one that is more considerate of our tiny place in our social habitats, in our universe, than we may perhaps reap the benefits of mindfulness: gratitude and happiness and such
Another point that I engaged with was being a prisoner to what you worship. We are so self absorbed that, if we worship A, yet someone else is better than us at A, we will believe that we are insufficient at A. While Wallace didnt include the second person as the benchmark of success, I think that interpersonal competition is very often a driving factor for humans. To what end, I am not surejust like in the Hegelian master-slave dialectic, if you eventually become the master of all others, that is, others believe you to be the master, you will wind up becoming the slave to those others because what you seek is recognition for being the best to assure yourself of your position. Anyway, we can worship A and still never be satisfied with our performance in the area. I think, in actionable and pragmatic terms, that we shouldnt stop worshiping A, because it might be that A gives us purpose in our livesthat being said, there might be a distinction between worshiping intelligence and having a goal to learn lots of, say, math, for instance. Yet, worshiping a knowledge of math still produces feelings of inadequacy with respect to that content area. So, the dualityor dialectical whatever, in Hegels or Lacans termsof purpose is that we are both guided by itto happiness, in Frankls mindbut also to servitude and oppression. Yet, I dont yet feel comfortable giving up my worship of math. I find it so paramount to my being, my existence, my meaning, that it seems worship is that proper term. Perhaps a scaled-back version of worshiping is betterits easy to think in extremes. Im not yet convinced that feeling inadequate is wholly a bad thing too. Perhaps a lack of satisfaction is required in order to achieve satisfaction in the future. A world without sadness has no happiness. If everybody is the best at A, no one is the best at A. Zero sum games. Absolutes. Extremes. This line of thinking harms everyone, especially when progresson the scale of humankindrequires collaboration and not competition. Whether or not our state of nature is as an individual, or as a group, we are social animals that wind up in groups somehow, and we cannot exist in absolutesfor only the Sith deal in absolutes. And we all like to think ourselves as the Jedi heroes of the story, of our world. Perhaps then a proper sonder would permit us, like Raskolnikov, to sometimes be obsessed to ill ends with one area, to worship math and feel inadequate, to think that there can only be one best mathematicianalas, I dont think humans live long enough to become polymaths anymorebecause that will allow you to frame your life in a direction. With direction and purpose, you can be motivated to do the difficult initially, create habits, such that you can reap the rewards, act mindfully, later.Part 1, Chapter 6
What ideas does the student [Raskolnikov] propose, and how does he justify them?
Does he plan to put those ideas into action? Why or why not?
Part 3, Chapter 5
This is the section where Porfiry and Raskolnikov discuss his his theories (starting about page 281-293)
What ideas did Raskolnikov convey in his essay published in Periodical Review?
How does Rakolnikov respond to Porfiry's comments about the article?
How do the other men respond (Porfiry and Razumikihn)? What does this conversation reveal about the three men?
Part 5, Chapter 4
How does Sonya respond to Raskolnikov's confession?
What does Raskolnikov mean in the reference to Napolean?
How does he try to justify the murder of the pawnbroker?
In waht sense did he actually murder himself, as he claims?
Part 6, Chapter 5
How did Svdrigailov explain the theory behind the murders?
How would YOU explain that theory?
How does Dunya respond? Why?
Dinah
Oh, Francis Sancher. I pray the good lord forgive me for the hate I feel for that horrible, beautiful, hunk of a man1 lying dead before us. I wont waste my breath on telling you all what you already know, of his sordid affairs and peculiar fears, or about the beauty and strength that blesses him even now, dead in his coffin2. Instead, I feel that I have something to confess, a matter that has been weighing upon my heart and mind for some time. For I have done a terrible injustice to Mira, who I love like a daughter, and I should hope to come clean to her and beg of her forgiveness for my sin. I too have shared the bed of Francis Sancher, and when I heard that he had left with Mira, I was overcome with a terrible jealousy. I pray that you do not find me vindictive, but you must understand that Francis Sancher had been my only sanctuary from the coldness of my husband, who left me alone in the house like a corpse in a tomb, veins frozen over and left to petrify3. Miras disappearance robbed me of that last succor I had remaining. So I cursed her, called down misfortune on her4, only to find that Satan had his ears far closer to my mouth than God. So you see, it was my fault that Mira became pregnant through him, my fault that the poor girl had to endure the poisons and cruelties he laid upon her after he learned of her pregnancy. I will spare you the details, as that tale is Miras and not mine to tell, but I will say that I have never heard of a man more frightened of his own seed than Francis Sancher5. I think a terrible curse was on him, far stronger than the one I laid upon Mira. Regardless, that is my confession, and I hope, Mira, you can find it in your heart to forgive me.
	Some of you may find it odd that I address this confession to Mira, and not to my husband, who I have wronged by my adultery and infidelity. I will not have you believe that I dont feel guilty about my actions, but my mind is dogged by that most terrible question Francis Sancher asked of me. Why do we put up with it?6 I have been lying awake at night pondering it, the reasons why I still lived in this tomb of a house with a man I do not love and who does not love me. For a time I had thought it faith that had kept me bound, but I do not believe that to be true now. I believe Faith is what shall set me free. Francis has now been likened in my head to a mare among Pharaohs chariot horses.7 pushing me onward from Egypt to the difficult freedom of the desert, but lost in the sea when the waves come crashing down behind me. I suppose this is to say, Lou-Lou, that I am leaving you. I need to search for my light, my life elsewhere. Goodbye.
1 pg. 80
2pg. 10 Wooden prison of a coffin square handsome face for a few hours longer
3pg. 78 this house became my prison, my tomb At times, it seemed I was already dead and my blood had already frozen in my veins.
4pg. 81
5pg. 83 that child must never open its eyes dying like a dog.
6pg. 83
7 Song of Songs 1:9, pg. 208 Shaking off her exhaustion Dinah opened the book of Psalms (I know the Song of Songs isnt in Psalms, but theyre both in Ketuvim so I think it still works. Feel free to disagree)
For my object, I am selecting a copy of the Tanakh, containing the book of Psalms, among others. I would have preferred a christian copy of the Bible, but that is not something that I possess. Dinah is consistently shown to be a religious individual, blaming herself for calling Satan down on Mirah4 and ending the book by opening Psalms, which I think is the strongest association with an object in the text.7 Additionally, the Messianic connotations foisted on Sancher in the final chapter(could he be an envoy, the messenger of some supernatural force pg. 208) help support his connection with the bible.
Cyrille
I didnt really know the man all that well, truth be told. I dont indulge in the gossip of Riviere au sel and I care little for how many girls bellies had been made to swell up by Francis Sancher1, so his antics never really landed in this thick old skull. Still, as I reckon I may have been the last to see the poor bastard alive2, exceptin the killer of course, if thats what happened, and as I am a damn fine storyteller, I suppose I owe all of you a story.3
	So gather round, and Ill tell you a tale bout the death of Francis Sancher, and the fell curse that dogged his family. I was wandering along the Saint Charles forest path4, when I was distracted from my usual route by this sound of heavy breathing Huughh, Huugh, Huughh. Naturally, I was intrigued, so I wandered towards the sound. Arriving, I see Francis Sancher, sitting on a stump and breathing these deep heavy breaths. So I sidled up to him and asked him what was up, what he was doing there. He just told me to sit down and offered me some rum, which I declined. That stuff was strong, the kind that bowls you over if your head isnt screwed on tight to both shoulders5, and I wasnt quite ready for that. But thats when things get strange, you see, he looks up at the volcano and says I wish it would erupt, that volcano!6, starts talking about not being the only one to go. Now Im scared, so I start blabbing about some nonsense, and I try to change the subject, asking about where hes from. Big mistake, because then he talks about his great-grandfather, Francois Desire7. I shudder now, thinking about what he said about this man8. It seemed he trafficked in dark things, demons and witchcraft and all that the Lord forbids us. He only left his native France after completing his dark work there. The French police found his ritual chamber later, strewn with most of the body of a young woman, though they never did find her head. Of course, by the time this happened, Francois had already wound up in these islands, letting his foulness soak into the sugar and sands, turning them rotten and sharp. But evil never wins in the end, and whatever vileness caught up with him and ended him, and his son, and his grandson, and now Francis sat there awaiting his fate.
	All this talk sent my teeth rattling9, but what really sent me over the edge was the apparition that appeared faintly in the forest just beyond. She was a Negress with pearly-white teeth sparkling between her thick lips, the color of black beauty aubergine, swaying her hips seductively10, and though her beauty made me want to run to her, I knew in my heart that she was death, and to do so would be last thing I ever do. So Im not ashamed to say I ran, and kept running until I saw the safety of my home. But I remember looking back, and seeing Francis Sancher looking at death, and calmly taking a sip from his flask of rum.
1pg. 124
2Pg 127 and that perhaps he had been the last to see him alive
3He claims on pg. 123 to have gone to Africa, then on pg. 126 he says the farthest Ive ever been is Deshaies on the other side. I am inferring from this, and the fact he tells tales for a living, that he has a tendency to embellish his stories. As such, the rest of my essay will not necessarily match up with the exact happenings in the text, as he adds little details with each retelling.
4pg. 124
5pg.124
6pg. 125
7pg. 125
8From here, Cyrille indulges some fabrication inspired by the actual quote about Francois.
9Pg. 128
10Pg. 127
For Cyrilles' object, I am bringing a fake bottle of rum. Cyrille does not have a particularly strong connection with Francis Sancher, but the offer of rum by Francis is the main positive gesture between the two, and I also connect it with his mentor Zephyr (A master storyteller, who between you and me, was too fond of the bottle pg. 125), who trained Cyrille to be who he is today.Crossing the Mangrove: Wake Re-Enactment - Dinah
E400 - World Literature
Dinah:
Id like to begin by reading an excerpt of lyrics from a song. 
[...] Oh, forget about love, forget about love,
On this earth,
When youve lost your love,
Youve got nothing but tears!
I took my heart
And gave it to a wretch
To a young man without feeling,
To a young man without love (76). 
My mother sang this to me when I was a child. Her voice was sweet and almost made those harsh words seem impossible. Shed comb her dark beautiful hair while she sang. That was before I had lived.
When I was young I was sent away to work as Loulous servant. In the beginning, I could hardly understand. I was enamored with his dreamy brown eyes (78). I worked diligently, but it was never enough. I stayed immured in the home and began to feel trapped. Each day dragged on in this awful prison[1]. I felt as though I had already diedmy youth stolen and snatched away by the cruel grip of labor.
But now, to address why were gathered here today. It pains me to uncover this secret Ive held so close to my chest for so long now, but maybe it will unburden my heavy heart to share it: I am to blame for the tragedy that has just drawn to a close. [...] I am, and nobody else (79). I am responsible for the tragedy of Francis Sancher.
I had grown so weary of my confined life; jumping at every whim of those around me to satisfy, satiate, and provide solace. But then, word reached me about this man, Francis Sancher, and I had to go see for myself who was the source of such gossip and commotion. When I saw him, tall, strong, well-defined, and with a mop of jet-black hair, I couldnt help but feel overwhelmed with an unknown sense of excited nervousness. I thought to myself, Oh Lord! Imagine a hunk of a man like that in your bed night after night (80)! I ran away as quickly as Id come before I made a fool of myself[2].
That night, Francis came to my room and joined me. It started right then and there. This welcome distraction from the heavy weight of Loulous oppression provided respite from the storm of my life. I felt comfortable opening up to Francis. I was floating on airfor that brief moment at least. He even asked me to run away[3] from this life. Looking back now Im appalled by my foolishness and lack of clarity. Just as when I was a child, I chose to ignore the song that my mom sang to me as she combed her dark hairhair so jet-black and similar to Francis's. Oh, how I shouldve listened to her song. Thats when everything changed.
*Dinah gets emotional thinking about how everything is about to change (in the re-telling of her own narrative).*
	Mira ran away and I stayed there night after night waiting for Francis. He never came home. But then, when I heard the truth, that Mira had gone to live with Francis, I was devastated. Francis was that man who was an oasis in my desert, but now Mira had ripped him away from me just as Loulou ripped away my childhood (82). 
	A while later, Mira returned to me, wracked with shame and sadness. Now pregnant, she regaled me with the horror story that her life had become. Ill spare you the details of this injustice just for the sake of Miras dignity, but this is when I realized it. Just as Francis himself had said, [men are] born torturers (81). Just as my mother had warned me all those years ago, When youve lost your love,/You've got nothing but tears (76)! I gave my heart to the wretch in my mothers songFrancis was my young man without feeling and love!
	So now, as I speak at the wake of this mans passing, Im overcome with melancholy. Francis was an ephemeral light in my life that came crashing into darknessjust as my mother warned as she combed her jet-black hair, curiously flecked with auburn (77).
*Display the comb as a memento of the advice that Dinah received from her mother (but didnt adhere to) and an acknowledgment of its validity.*
THE END
------------------------------------------------------------
[1] So I stayed at home with my servant, my children, and gradually this house made of wood at the edge of the dense forest, deprived of light and sun, a paradise dripping with lovers chains and anthuriums, this house became my prison, my tomb (78).
[2] This description is inspired directly and indirectly by the description of Dinahs encounter with Sancher on page 80. At that very moment he turned towards me and his eyes plunged into mine as if he were reading my thoughts (80).
[3] Why do you put up with it? Why dont you leave (81)?Its the second time I've seen a dead body, but it's the first time I've been to a wake.[1] The first time was my grandmother when my parents took me to her funeral. It wasnt a wake, but when we drove to grandmothers house, her coffin was open with all these flowers around. I hate dead bodies. The way they are all sickly and shriveled up.[2] When I saw my grandmothers corpse, that was already a lot, but when my parents kissed her goodbye, I couldnt stand anymore and hid in the kitchen under the sink.[3] My father was disappointed in me of course.[4] Fathers don't want cowards as children. But at least I had Minerve, who told me stories as a child. She even helped Mira give birth. Poor little Mira.[5] I was there when it all happened, when Quentin was born, although I was forced to the garden so as not to get in the way by Aristide. I guess Quentin will never know his father. I wonder if he will despise him like I despise mine.
I didnt know him that well, Francis that is. In fact, I only saw him once by chance when I had to redo my algebra homework and missed my bus. As I was cutting past Grande-Savane on my walk home, passing the bay with the windsurfers, I ran into him as he sat on a tree doing absolutely nothing. As I walked past him and greeted him, he got up and followed me asking all these questions like Whats your name? How old are you? Are you getting along all right at school?[6] When I mentioned my fathers comment that I would end up like a Haitian with the marks I have, he laughed and said it wouldnt be so bad because the Haitians are a great people.[7] He even wore a necklace from Haiti, and took it off to show me. He told me how he traveled, and it piqued my interest. But one thing led to another and all of a sudden he was lecturing me about his life and something called Operation Carlotta. Anyway, when I tried to get away he chased after me and grabbed me and I got scared. He kept on talking about Carlotta, so the first chance I got I broke free and ran as fast as I could, and he ran after me again shouting. At one point I missed my footing [from running so fast] and rolled on the moss,[8] when I all of a sudden saw the spirit Xantippe right there, watching me.[9] I ran straight home without looking back. It wasnt until I got there that I realized I was still holding the necklace he showed me. When I finally sat down, I cried. My father is right: I am a coward. Why else would I cry when an old man tells me nonsense? I still have the necklace, and keep it because it reminds me of Francis telling me I dont have to listen to my father, and that being a Haitian wouldnt be so bad.[10] For some reason though, I get a bad feeling looking back, especially with the Xantippe. In my opinion, thats what killed him. He was found in the forest afterall, and it would only be fitting for a man as hated as him to have his blood drained from the Xantippe. As for me, I couldnt really care about what happened. I didnt know him, and he reminded me of my father. Im only here because Papa wants me to be a man.[11]
------------------------------------------------------------
[1] (Cond 68).
[2] (Cond 69).
[3] (Cond 69).
[4] Implied when father is angry that Joby hides like a coward (page 69).
[5] Inferred from tone Joby uses when speaking of Mira. I couldnt get to sleep thinking of Mira, alone in ehr room, never seeing anybody except for Maman Dinah [...] (Cond 70).
[6] (Cond 72).
[7] (Cond 73).
[8] (Cond 74).
[9] [...] and then I saw a Xantippe standing a few steps away watching me (Cond 74).
[10] It is implied Joby had a slight admiration for Francis Sancher during their breif meeting because Francis went against what Jobys father said and mentioned travelling the world (something Joby also wants to do one day). Your father shouldnt say such things. The Haitians are a great people. Ive met them in America, Angola and a lot of Zaire! Immediatly, he caught my interest, because I too want to see the world when I grow up (Cond 73).
[11] Thats why Papa brought me here. So that I would see a corpse and behave like a man (Cond 70).Writing Prompt 3: Write Like a Justice
H410 - Constitutional Law
Disclaimer: The opinion I argue in this writing prompt doesnt reflect my own. I am attempting to stretch my skills of argumentation by approaching a point (I dont morally agree with) purely through a constitutional framework.
The majority opinion of the court ruled that the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment protect the right to marry as a fundamental liberty that applies equally to both heterosexual and homosexual couples. My repudiation of the majority opinion is not in fact concerned with the associated content of the case at hand or the right it does or doesnt provide or protect. This isnt and, as will become clear, shouldnt be my focus. As Justice Scalia stated in his dissenting opinion in Casey, We should get out of this area, where we have no right to be, and where we do neither ourselves nor the country any good by remaining (Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania v. Casey). While this area in Casey referred to abortion, the same concept of privacy applies to this case of marriage. However, thats beside the point. Today, Im not inserting myself into an issue best left resolved in a democratic way by the people it affects. No. Theres a more pressing issue. Today, I argue on the behalf of the Constitution. Today, I argue in an effort to preserve the process of law that our democracy deems so fundamental. The justices who have authored this majority opinion have blatantly overstepped the bounds of their jurisdiction. 
The lasting impact of the majoritys approach, where their words become legally binding once published, ventures into the territory of dangerous precedent. They openly acknowledge that The generations that wrote and ratified the Bill of Rights and the Fourteenth Amendment did not presume to know the extent of freedom in all of its dimensions, yet the majority finds it within their realm of power to address this discord between the Constitution's central protections and a received legal stricture given new insight (Obergefell v. Hodges). If it was the intent of the authors of the Constitution to have the Supreme Court act as the body to reconcile discord with new insight, they would have said as much in the language they used. But, as stated in Justice Blacks dissenting opinion in Griswold, [...] there is no provision of the Constitution which either expressly or impliedly vests power in this Court to sit as a supervisory agency over acts of duly constituted legislative bodies (Griswold v. Connecticut). Instead, the founders of this country devised a government of and for the people. They crafted a system of constitutional amendment to address and incorporate this inevitable new insighta system of voting that upholds the integrity of our democracy and ensures that each perspective is counted. Just as the system of amendment offers a voice to the people of this country, so does the power of the state to decide the extent of their marital protections. As shown in the Ninth and Tenth Amendments, a right that isnt explicitly enumerated in the Constitution (marriage in this case) is a power reserved to the states respectively, or to the people (Constitution). As Justice Scalia dissents in Obergefell, A system of government that makes the People subordinate to a committee of nine unelected lawyers does not deserve to be called a democracy (Obergefell v. Hodges).
I end with questions of warning: What becomes of our meticulously crafted precious separation of powers, a cornerstone of our democracy, if this committee of nine unelected lawyers is free to decide based on moral whims that stem from new insight? Can the Court just decide to neglect its role, as presented in the Federalist Papers, as a body that acts with neither force nor will but merely judgment [?] In what world can we preach to lift every voice and yet consider a mere fraction of our diverse country to act as a legislative body?
Each decision that follows this dangerous precedent and intrudes on issues better left to the people threatens our system of governments
I dissent.
You are writing to a ruler on how to rule. 
You must choose a real figure, from the past or present.
You must use Augustine, Aquinas, or Machiavelli, or some combination of the three to make your argument.
->=3 quotes
https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/45305/pg45305-images.html
https://www3.nd.edu/~afreddos/summa-translation/Part%202-2/st2-2-ques40.pdf
https://www.gutenberg.org/files/1232/1232-h/1232-h.htm
-600..800 words
When giving advice, clarity is key.
Thesis statement
structure is necessary
use history as examples (when someone has vs. has not followed given advice) -> how do you know what you know
use history in political philosophy
tone: formal vs. direct
if you actually give this advice, would it get you executed or arrested;
the more dictatorial, the more formal you must be
Quotes:
1.Aquinas quoting Augustine: Augustine says, It is not the case that peace is sought in order that war might be waged; rather, war is waged in order that peace might be acquired.  Therefore, be peaceful when engaging in war, in order that, by subduing those whom you are fighting against, you might lead them to the benefits of peace.
Therefore it is always important to distinguish a meaning when taking a decisive course of action.
2.The prince who relies entirely on fortune is lost when it changes. (Machiavelli) Be cautious to not lose control of a situation; recognize what can be attributed to your control.
3.A prince, therefore, being compelled knowingly to adopt the beast, ought to choose the fox and the lion; because the lion cannot defend himself against snares and the fox cannot defend himself against wolves. Therefore, it is necessary to be a fox to discover the snares and a lion to terrify the wolves. (Machiavelli, The Prince, XVIII)
Diversity of strategy is important
4.Let a prince have the credit of conquering and holding his state, the means will always be considered honest, and he will be praised by everybody; because the vulgar are always taken by what a thing seems to be and by what comes of it; and in the world there are only the vulgar, for the few find a place there only when the many have no ground to rest on. (Machiavelli, The Prince, XVIII)
In other words, the ends justify the means; corrupt means are justifiable with desirable ends because the world consists only of the vulgar. 
5.It is unnecessary for a prince to have all the good qualities [...], but it is very necessary to appear to have them. (Machiavelli, The Prince, XVIII)
Machiavelli claims that appearances are the only important component to rule. However, the government is not a black box. It is a contractarian system which operates on checks and balances.
Augustine Shame had more influence with [the followers of Diogenes cynical behaviors], [...] Human nature, then, is without doubt ashamed of this lust (Augustine, City of God, Book 14)
Humans are herd animals, and will be unable to withstand social pressures. It is therefore paramount to control the common social opinion of your actions. If your actions are viewed favorably, the cascade of support will be immense, but the reverse is also true.
6.One should wish to be both, but, because it is difficult to unite them in one person, it is much safer to be feared than loved, when, of the two, either must be dispensed with (Machaivelli, The Prince, Chapter XVII)
Ideation:
It is easier to support a facade of justice when one is actually just, because that renders ones appearance as true to ones own nature.
President Lyndon Johnson domestic policy in conflict with escalations in Vietnam
Fight against communism
must be clear with intentions and have equal morals applied everywhere
example of country claiming motivations for corrupt actions is 
Soviet Union, internal propaganda stating that they support equality and justice, and wanted to help Afghanistan, a fellow communist nation against Western imperialism; however they only wanted to expand their influence, in an ironically imperialistic manner. In addition, they committed many human rights violations. -> My Lai massacre
Franklin D Roosevelt before Japanese Internment "the principle on which this country was founded and by which it has always been governed is that Americanism is a matter of the mind and heart; Americanism is not, and never was, a matter of race or ancestry." Then after Pearl Harbor Attack in 1942, Executive Order 9066 -> forced relocation and internment
To Mr. President Lyndon B. Johnson,
Now is a time of immense strife for The United States of America and her people. We are experiencing a war on two fronts, domestic and foreign. This war is a conflict on the concept of war itself: can we, as a nation that values liberty and justice and freedom, take it within our own hands to establish such ideals in other nations around the globe?
At the same time, how can we even begin to fortify those values for our fellow humans when we are bereft of the enjoyment of these rights at home? 
The advancement of the virtuous goals of education, housing, and civil rights within our homeland conflicts with the choice to escalate violence in Vietnam. The objective of war, as Augustine of Hippo stated, is that, War is waged in order that peace might be acquired. Therefore, be peaceful when engaging in war, in order that, by subduing those whom you are fighting against, you might lead them to the benefits of peace (Augustine as qtd. in Aquinas). These aforementioned benefits of peace cannot be brought to constituents of an opponent nation when we have yet to establish such rights within our own nation. So, a universal moral foundation universal to home and away is necessary to inform the difficult decision of whether to advance or retract the campaign in Vietnam. From the varying ideas ensconced within Niccolo Machiavellis, The Prince, we can derive that the unified philosophy is the state of entropy for governments, and that a schism between appearance and action degrades the function of that government. In this case, the benevolent values of the Great Society, do not support aggressive action in Vietnam.
It is paramount, in order to resolve both conflicts foreign and national, that one's ideals and values be upheld in all circumstances. The significance of a toggleable moral is vitiated by its impermanence. As such, there should be no discrepancy between how a government presents itself and its true state. Machiavelli claims that rulers need to concern themselves only with appearances. It is unnecessary for a prince to have all the good qualities [...], but it is very necessary to appear to have them (Machiavelli, XVIII). With respect to appearances, intentions are more important than outcomes. If this were the case, we would not be discomforted by President Roosevelts statement prior to Japanese internment, "The principle on which this country was founded and by which it has always been governed is that Americanism is a matter of the mind and heart; Americanism is not, and never was, a matter of race or ancestry." Then, after the Pearl Harbor Attack in 1942, President Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066, which forced relocation and internment of Americans of Japanese ancestry. There are two possible malevalences in this example, either the moral foundations of the government were not universal, or they were universal, yet obfuscated with falsehoodsthe former is more reasonable than the latter. In both cases, a mercurial and fractured leadership erodes its own ethos. Therefore, we cannot grant both more peace at home and more war in Vietnam at the same time. 
If a leader must preset true, the leader may forgo appearances by attempting to achieve desirable ends without considering the means. Machiavelli notes that the business of governing is, vulgar, and, as vulgarities are commonplace in the world, they are acceptable. Let a prince have the credit of conquering and holding his state, the means will always be considered honest, and he will be praised by everybody; because the vulgar are always taken by what a thing seems to be and by what comes of it; and in the world there are only the vulgar (Machiavelli, XVIII). This line of thinking is corollary to a quintessential Machiavellian ideal that, the ends justify the means. Corrupt means are justifiable with desirable ends because the world consists only of the vulgar and corrupt. Upon a cursory inspection, it may seem that foul play is requisite to success. For example, when the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistanin a proxy war, like Vietnamtheir goal was to defend a fellow communist nation from Western imperialism. However, despite this facade, the expansion of Soviet military influence was, ironically, rather imperialist. In order to spread communism, the communists had to directly oppose their ideology. However, in our case, we should not condescend to debase our own morals in pursuit of our own ends. From recent events, the My Lai massacre deracinates the validity of the Machiavellian dictum in its entirety. Human rights violations simply cannot be justified for any goal. When the ends are separate from the means, moral incongruences become permissible. To adhere to one moral pathway and therefore to end the war in Vietnam, we cannot use more violence.
While the presence of a common moral thread is essential to a just leader, it does not render the diversity of strategy unimportant. 
Machiavelli observes that a ruler must employ different tactics in different situations, A prince, being compelled knowingly to adopt the beast, ought to choose the fox and the lion; because the lion cannot defend himself against snares and the fox cannot defend himself against wolves. Therefore, it is necessary to be a fox to discover the snares and a lion to terrify the wolves (Machiavelli, XVIII). If a leader must employ each style, there exists a fine line between adaptability and suppleness. A pliable leader is like a diaphanous puppet propelled by the vicissitude of the common opinion. Such leaders are considered weak. For example, King Alfonso XIII of Spain, regarded as one of the worst Spanish monarchs, flipped between implementing military and civilian dictators. Fickle leaders rely too much on luck. About fortune, Machiavelli states that, The prince who relies entirely on fortune is lost when it changes (Machiavelli, XXV). This dictates that we must maintain control over a situation. We cannot rely on the fate of the world to unfold events. Instead, we need to act. For example, when he was faced with numerous difficult choices, President Kennedy ultimately decided to impose a naval blockade on Cuba during the Missile Crisis. 
Even though Vietnam is not as time sensitive as Cuba, given the fact that the war has already been dragged out for over a decade, we must swiftly guide our actions by a universal moral foundation of respect for human rights and inherent liberties.
In conclusion, the complex decision to escalate the war in Vietnam involves not only strategic considerations but also moral values and principles. While diversity in strategy is important, it cannot be used as an excuse for moral incongruences. To uphold a universal moral foundation that aligns with the values of the "Great Society" requires a deescalation of violence in Vietnam. By adhering to a just and consistent moral framework, you, Mr. President, can lead the nation towards a peaceful and prosperous future, both domestically and internationally.
Prompts
-Write about The Wretched of the Earth and how this work contrasts or works in concert with other works that we have read. Does this work move philosophy in a new direction, does it build off of previous arguments we have seen? 
-Write about existentialism and political philosophy. Engage with Nietzsche, Sartre, and Beauvoir. Does existentialism indicate a certain kind of political system? What does this philosophy suggest about the state of nature and justice? 
-Beauvoir and Fanon represent voices and perspectives that were traditionally not included in the Western philosophy canon. How does race and/or gender add to our understanding of political philosophy and past concepts? 
-You can write about what your political philosophy is, or how it has changed or been refined by engaging with these works.
Requirements
-600-800 words
-3-4 quotes
Sources
https://central.edu/writing-anthology/2019/07/08/hegels-master-slave-dialectic-the-search-for-self-consciousness/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wves5FsVUXA
limitations of human cognition
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3197943/
the human mind can only think about two things at once
https://www.rochester.edu/newscenter/making-sense-through-order-83092/
the human mind seek patterns to make guesses
pareidolia
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5494206/
humans, like all animals, form social hierarchies and have neurological structures tuned to digesting social status information
Quotes
-Nietzsche we seek ignorance to enjoy life
-contradicts with the Aristotelian claim that the pursuit of knowledge is pleasurable for humans.
-Hegel the humankind has not liberated itself from servitude, but by means of servitude
-creativity/self expression are inherently freeing
-Camus what gives life meaning is what prevents you from killing yourself
-Lacan mans desire is the desire of the Other
-Lacan all desire is the desire to be desired
-the other is another person or a symbol
-dont obsess over the desire of others 
-shame is when we view ourselves from the perspective of the Other
-iek the basic function of a master is not to serve as a model to rational reasoning, providing the ultimate arguments for adopting a certain position, but on the contrary, to surprise us by uttering statements which run against our hitherto doxa
-blind faith in the master is to fallacy of appealing to authority
-Fanon For the native, life can only spring up again out of the rotting corpse of the settler.
-new life can only be achieved through the crucible of death
-Fanon The relationship between colonist and colonized is one of physical mass. Against the greater number the colonist pits his force
-the colonists and colonized are not equal in size; a master with many subjects -> challenge the inception of the dialectic
Outline
-introductory questions of political philosophy
-how do people organize themselves and operate with others?
-what are ways of cooperation/working together
-the state of the individual informs the state of collaboration
-historical irony in decolonization, only winners of WWII only decolonized fascist powers; why arent their values being upheld in their own territories? same argument as intra-civil rights and liberties of the 60s.
-the colonized have been dehumanized to enable extreme violence, so the only way to regain their humanity is through violence
-violence is an absolutism, all or nothing
-is it justified for the greater good?
-its a part of human nature 
-Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad is an expose on, the horror, the horror,the two dying words of the antagonist of colonial violence.
-types of justice, violence is equality
-problem: perpetuation of violence, organized -> change, random -> fear
-the disciplined use of violence is a tool, not an end, violence is man recreating himself
-role reversal potential, the top become the bottom and the bottom become the top
-theme/issue will be seen later of oversimplification into two opposing forces, the real world is more dynamic, tribalist tendency to label all others outside of group as oppressors 
-decolonization is both literal and figurative
-indoctrinated habitus of self-inferiority complex caused from believing the colonizers myths.
-from both parties, colonialists must leave and purge the colonial identity from themselves
-existentialism, creation ex nihilo? build from no foundation or prejudice, idealist thinking
-cant look at the individual alone to understand the essence of humans because humans are social animals; Hegelian dialectic, we define ourselves from others
-humans are so in tuned to viewing other humans that we have special senses to identify faces and eyes
-use to say that Hegels dialectic can applies to societies because the societies are the state of nature
-what is required for a new humanity?
-Hegels master-slave dialectic (or lord-bondsman), use master subject
-concerns two entities in opposition
-sublation (translated from German) is the dialectic process
-the reason why it is a dialectic and not a polylectic is the simplest comparison is that of two choices
-subject presumed to know is the master ethos
-state of nature, Hobbes, Locke, Hegel says consciousness claims itself to be the objective measure of reality, and through the dialectic process will come to the ultimate goal of reconciliation of thought or reality, in other words complete comprehension of the environment, this is coined Absolute Idea. 
-however, since the environment consists of other consciousnesses, and one read anothers thoughts, this state lives only in the abstract worldexcept in Neon Genesis Evangelion
-self-consciousness = freedom
-process for the development of knowledge
-two undefined beings through negation become a subject to a master the by negation of negation, the subject becomes self aware
-master believes that they are a master, Dunning-Kruger curve
-masters strife is to be recognized by the equal
-last stage (not present in Hegels story, but later added by Lacan) where the subject uses the masters ideas to expose their limitations 
-
My ideal philosophy is science, whose axioms are observation and reproducibility. Science is a philosophy, a path for making meaning and finding truth, just like any other kind. The strength of science is in its ability to change. When truth is prescribed through faith and belief, it becomes static. Circling back to Socrates, why should people be educated on how to ask questions if you only want them to conform to your system? Questions allow for the system to change and grow in the future when no one yet has the right questions. It is hard for philosophers, let alone anyone, to picture a life substantially different from the one that they are living in. The genre of science fiction represents some of our best attempts to imagine alternate realitiesmost often in the future. Given that our imagination is bound by our human limitations, our political philosophies cannot escape those same axioms of life as well. Existentially, we cannot
Colonialism was an important epoch of time in our modern history that has literally shaped nations today. Colonialism is a result of the tribalism innate to human nature, in conjunction with the human capacity for rapacity and violence. Understanding how humans organize themselves and cooperate with others, both in positive ways, and negative violent colonial ones, helps to understand human nature, which ultimately informs political systems.
According to Frantz Fanon, in order to enact colonial violence, the colonized must first be dehumanized by the colonists to enable their use of extreme violence. Thus, the only way for the victims to regain their humanity is through the same commensurate fires of violence. Violence is justified when it is reflected back at the perpetrator for the greater good. Equal violence is just. Yet, there is a fundamental issue with equal violence. First, is the issue of perpetuation. Fanon makes the distinction between random violence, which causes disorder, chaos, and fear; and organized violence, which brings about change. The disciplined use of violence is a tool, not an end. However, the idea of organized violence unveils the question of how much violence is equal? Joseph Conrads, Heart of Darkness, a novel famous for its exposition of the complex evil of colonialism, describes colonial violence with, the horror, the horror, which were the last two dying words uttered by the antagonist. Violence is an absolute, horrible, all or nothing, horrible. With excess violence, there may come about a role reversal where the oppressed become the oppressors and thus a cycle emerges: the bottom become the top and the top become the bottom. However, this would only be the case if the two groups were equal. For a simple example of their differences, the colonized outnumber the colonists. This size comparison is often set up as in an upward-pointing triangle; the geometry establishes a hierarchy between the larger lower base of the colonized, and the smaller taller peak of the colonists. Fanon describes the dynamic from a strategic lens, The relationship between colonist and colonized is one of physical mass. Against the greater number the colonist pits his force. Fanon warns that the system is not stable. The colonists and colonized are in a state of constant  muscular tension, which periodically erupts into bloody fighting between tribes, clans, and individuals. This combative tendency results from the tribal inclination to label all outside groups as oppressors. A potent historical example of this effect took place in Rwanda, where the colonizers skewed occupational titles into racial classifications. The triangle is not stable when balanced on its point: the result became that the larger of the two groups, the Hutu, who were both corrupted by the dividing idea of race, committed genocide against the smaller group, the Tutsi. This tragedy occurred after the Belgians ostensible decolonization. However, the physical departure of the colonists does not ensure that their horrible ideas leave as well. The utterly internecine violence became possible only after the permeation of the colonial systems into the minds of the colonized.
Decolonization is both literal and figurative. The belief in colonial myth indoctrinates a self-inferiority complex within the colonized. They were meant to be subjugated, oppressed, ruled. It is for this reason that Fanon asserts that, violence is man recreating himself. Revolt will strip the subjects of their erroneous beliefs that have been branded upon them by the masters. However, while much thought is put into what actions the colonized should take to liberate themselves, it is only the original perpetrators, the colonists themselves, who can finally eradicate the system. Not only must the colonists leave, but they also must purge the colonist identity from within themselves in order to effectively dismantle the process. One example is the historical irony from the end of the Second World War, where the allied powers forced the fascist powers to withdraw control of their colonies, while the victors kept their colonies. Why werent their values being upheld in their own territories? The frustration with the solely external application of liberty can be seen in the civil rights and liberties movements within the United States during the time of the Vietnam War. The colonists not only inflict damage upon their colonies, but also infect their own territory with the same noxious poison. Therefore, colonialism isnt merely the subjugation of other nations, it is also generalized, in Fanons eyes, as the unwarranted control of any one group by another. This pattern is quintessential to human nature and is further understood through G.W.F. Hegels process, known as the dialectic.
Hegel describes a scenario he called the lord-bondsman dialectic. Its name has also been translated from German into the master-slave dialectic. Based on the jargon of later thinkers on the matter, like Jacques Lacan, the dialectic will henceforth be referred to as the master-subject dialectic (MSD). Hegels original dialectic is a framework for understanding humans development of knowledge of their environment. The dialectic process, called sublation, according to Hegel, will yield the ultimate goal of reconciliation of thought and reality, in other words, a complete comprehension of ones environment; this is coined Absolute Idea. However, since the environment consists of other consciousnesses, Absolute Idea is a purely Platonic and abstract idealism. Yet, the critical component still remains: how humans acquire knowledge from their fellow humans; reality is best understood when it is processed through many minds. The MSD concerns two undefined entities and how their interactions cause the beings each to define themselves from the other. These entities are at first in a state of nature, where each consciousness claims itself to be the objective measure of reality. Then, upon encountering the other, they engage in conflict as they reconcile their respective realities. The consciousness becomes self-consciousness,[1] aware that they are not one-of-a-kind and alone. The idea of inevitable conflict aligns with Thomas Hobbes naturally belligerent humankind. In the Hegelian model, the battle is a fight to the death where the winner spares the losers life because the winner needs another to recognize their victory. The loser then becomes indebted to the winner for this act of mercy, and becomes a subject to the now master. In a higher level of abstraction, the struggle is any series of actions that results in a power differential between the two entities, thereby assigning the roles of master and subject. The impetus for the MSD is less important than the subsequent dynamic between master and subject. 
Then, the master believes that they arebetter than the subject that is. However, the only data point factored into their assertion is the otherthey could merely be at the peak of mount stupid on the Dunning-Kruger curve. The master has defined themselves in relation to the subject as a master, and therefore retains the hubris that they are ethos, are god; they alone define reality. At this point, Lacan labels the master as the subject presumed to knowpresumed by the minds of both the master themself and the lesser subject. The masters strife becomes the need to be recognized, not by a lesser subject, but by an equal. Without this, the master is dependent on the recognition of the subject. Lacans view on desire helps to illustrate the masters conundrum. Lacan claims that, all desire is the desire to be desired. Both subject and master align with this rule. The subject needs to be validated by the master, yet the master needs to be recognized by an equal. The latter condition is only possible if the master ceases to be the master of all. For if two masters are equals, comparatively, they cease to be masters to each other.
While the master struggles, the subject thrives. The subject has a clear purpose, to become like the master. Through service to the master, the subject develops knowledge skills, adapting their understanding of reality. Hegel states that, the humankind has not liberated itself from servitude, but by means of servitude. This suggests that work in servitude, when it requires creativity and self expression, are inherently freeing because they allow humans to develop their consciousness to be more aware of the environment.[2] This thinking is echoed from Aristotle, who surmised that the pursuit of knowledge is pleasurable for humans. Thus, it is the subject, who works to better themselves and broaden their consciousness, for the sake of the master, who gains liberty and pleasure. Self-consciousness is freedom. 
Eventually, the subject must reevaluate the nature of their relationship with the master. The master has sat docile while the subject has toiled. One has become strong while the other has become weak. The subject is now able to call into question The basic function of a master, Slavoj iek says, is not to serve as a model to rational reasoning, providing the ultimate arguments for adopting a certain position, but on the contrary, to surprise us by uttering statements which run against our hitherto doxa. iek cautions against blind faith in the master, and instead suggests that the master is present to provide a diversity of thought aimed at improving the subject instead of propagating confirmation bias. The subject must then enter into the final stage of the MSDwhich is not present in Hegels story, but was a subsequent addition by Lacanwhere the subject uses the masters ideas to expose their limitations. Ultimately, the subject defeats the master.
The MSD is crucial for understanding colonialism. The initial stage is prompted by the colonialists' greed for resources of another land, e.g. people or materials. The colonists define themselves as better than the colonizedafter all, they are the ones who won the fight and coerced a population into subjugation. The colonialists sought to colonize in the first place in order to be recognized by equal powers, other colonialists, other European nations. The colonized become infected with the colonizers' corrupted ideas. They presume that the colonists know. The colonized people then live in a twisted reward system, to be sycophants to their tyrannical masters. This appears to be the only way to act as a subject, to obey their master. The colonized servitude builds strength, and therefore builds the tool for eventual freedom. Yet all the while continuing to feed the colonial regime. The last stage of the MSD embodies Fanons idea to use the masters own violence against them. Violence is enabled by the strength honed from the subjects servitude. Thus, the colonists' own malice renders their downfall.
This fundamental error suggests that the best way to colonize a population would, instead of subjugating them to become subjects, be to weaken them with decadence, by falsely installing them as nominal puppet masters.
The MSD produces two inquiries which challenge its fundamental standing. First, are Hegel Hobbes right? Will humans find themselves in conflict without society? The second is a query to the first, does Hegels logic hold when two entities are not in a state of nature, but rather in a societyafter all, society is required to have the colonizers and colonized. The framework of existentialism can provide answers to both of these questions. To address both questions simultaneously, the existentialist notes that society is the natural state of humans, that we are social animals, defined both as individuals but also from others. In fact, humans are so tuned toward interacting with other humans that we have special senses that identify faceseven where there arent any, pareidoliaand detect gazeseven when there arent any, scopaesthesia. Therefore, Hegels dialectic and the MSD apply to both societies and the state of nature because they are inseparable. In short, given that humans themselves into societies, is it not within their nature to be inclined to do so? Hegelian idealism pairs well with existential idealism in many facets, including the inability to answer difficult pragmatic questions.
Directly stating the most extreme, Fanon writes that, For the native[--colonized], life can only spring up again out of the rotting corpse of the settler[--colonialist]. Again, the subject defeats the master. But can the subject avoid becoming master to another? Can the subject not presume to now know just because they have defeated the one previously assumed to know? This idea of birth from death heralds the question of how to create a new humanity ignorant to violence, without a foundation of prejudice. Can a new humanity be created ex nihilo? Does that mean that everyone has to die? Could humans even exist without violence? If it is something innate to our nature, then wouldnt the same cycle perpetuate? The metaphoric lens provided by the Hegelian MSD pries apart and exposes the colonial infrastructure as the craftsmanship of a fallacious and control-seeking master. To scrutinize it will allow for its dismantlement.
------------------------------------------------------------
[1] https://central.edu/writing-anthology/2019/07/08/hegels-master-slave-dialectic-the-search-for-self-consciousness/ The difference between self-consciousness and consciousness is that the self-consciousness is self-aware or its place among other self-consciousnesses.
[2] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wves5FsVUXA AI Philosophy Is Weirdly Profound, Clark Elieson. Interpretation of Hegels writing to suggest, contrary to the ostensible, that freedom is found in work for servitude.Prompt:
You are to write about economics. You can discuss Marx, Smith, Locke, Plato, whomever you would like. What you are to do is write an essay on how economics ties into political philosophy. Which theory do you agree with? Is there a difference between political philosophy and macro economic theory?
Marx: https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/46423/pg46423-images.html
Smith: https://oll.libertyfund.org/title/smith-an-inquiry-into-the-nature-and-causes-of-the-wealth-of-nations-cannan-ed-vol-1 
Locke: https://www.gutenberg.org/files/7370/7370-h/7370-h.htm 
-600-800 words
-3-4 quotes total from the philosophers we have read so far
Rubric
Use of Quotes
-You used quotes effectively, your quotes are highly relevant to the topic at hand, you integrate them well into your essay.
Economy
-You lay out a well-structured argument as to how economics is connected to political theory and you grapple with the complexities and possible problems of your idea.
Writing
-Your writing is clear and concise and you are able to take complex thoughts and put them into relatable language.
What are people like?
	state of nature: good, Locke; bad, Hobbes
	interests -> skills -> division of labor
		two examples:
division of labor on a single production line
division of labor in different products
What do communities need?
	balance between low risk stability versus high risk growth
Are economics and politics the same?
	can a political structure exist independent of an economic one
		do politicians get paid? if yes, then no.
perhaps the more relevant question is whether the state of a political system is independent of the state of the economy over which the government resides? 
if the government is funded by the economy, then no.
in our government there exists the notion of separation of church and state, does there exist a separation of production and state? 
	state of nature, the purpose of the government is to provide stability to the people and their interests by the union of a social contract; enables social contracts like property. property is formed through labor 
social capital and power
outline process
division of labor -> specialization -> goods variety -> bartering -> universal secure divisible tradeable value: money
money is a tool without inherent value, only exchange value
abstract and universalized representation of the amount and quality of labor that goes into goods and services
	potentially ignores 
aesthetic appreciation
innate value of land
dont divorce money from the fundamental means of production
dont ascribe existential value to money
	collection and amassment -> must correspond with investment of work toward society
		stock market is a field that ascribes existential value to money while not improving the internal societal conditions, intra functions. Could argue that it helps with interactions between societiesexample interactions: collaboration vs. competition, inter functions. 
Money is a commodity that, in its capacity as a measure of value, serves as a universal equivalent for all other commodities, which means that it is the direct incarnation of all human labor (Marx, Capital)
Marx has many different distinctions between different types of labor
productive labor, ex: factor job
not productive labor, ex: social labor, volunteering; domestic labor
division of labor
Smiths ideology is almost technocratic, in that machinery is celebrated as being a positive force toward achieving the goal of more labor. Those with the capacity to automate, that is those with technical skills, thereby can do better work, and in turn amass more social capital and power.
Everybody must be sensible about how much labor is abridged and facilitated by the application of proper machinery. [...] the division of labor which probably gave occasion to the invention of the greater part of those machines, by which labor is so much facilitated and abridged (Smith, Wealth of Nations).
specialization leads to invention
When the whole force of the mind is directed to one particular object, as in consequence of the division of labor it must be, the mind is more likely to discover the easiest methods of attaining that object than when its attention is dissipated among a great variety of things (Smith, Wealth of Nations).
stated two different ways
The division of labor, by reducing every man's business to some one simple operation, and by making this operation the sole employment of his life, necessarily increases very much the dexterity of the workman (Smith, Wealth of Nations).
Development of an adroit skill might cause the people to be androids rather than humans because a monomania inhibits creativity where creativity can be defined in simple terms as the clever combination of diverse ideas. When one is put upon the obsession of a single task or skill, their diversity of ideas necessarily decreases and thereby so too does their creativity. 
Every man has a property in his own person: this nobody has any right to but himself. The labor of his body, and the work of his hands, we may say, are properly his. Whatsoever then he removes out of the state that nature hath provided, and left it in, he hath mixed his labor with, and joined to it something that is his own, and thereby makes it his property (Locke, Second Treatise).
Locke says that labor is a requisite for establishing property,
In the example of harvesting food from nature, Locke asserts, that labor put a distinction between them and common: that added something to them more than nature, the common mother of all, had done; and so they became his private right (Locke, Second Treatise). Therefore, when one takes an action that nature would not have done, one exerts their own will and influence upon the world. Derived from this idea is the definition of labor. 
Locke uses the phrase, bestown labor to indicate influence. Taking influence from physics and paying attention to synonyms of English, we can equate the act of labor as merely: work.
dialectical materialism
ancient Greek thought summoned the quandary of whether the mind forms reality, or vice versa, the former being idealism, versus the latter being materialism. cogito ergo sum vs. sum ergo cogito
Hegels dialectic: conflict arises naturally; the resolution contradictions induces the motion of matter
economics and politics are linked because the material conditions impact the peoples functioning and therefore their political responses
government encompasses the economic systems
economy without government can be evaluated according to the state of nature
would systems of government naturally evolve from an organized economy?
society is a mutual contract between people, an organization; economy is based on trade, which requires mutual agreement and exchange. economy creates society
the maintenance and logistical codification of societys contractsfor the solidification across generations and minds in places of power, forms government
while not desiring to establish a rigorous proof, yet nonetheless motivated by the mathematical technique of proof by contrapositive, we should ask whether a system can exist with limited interaction between the economy and the government
	ex: right-wing libertarianism where private individuals act within their means will give rise to government systems where those with the most power exercise their will upon others; totalitarian government is still a government.
alienation: workers are no longer in charge of the result of their labor
	less pride, less motivation; dont control their output
craftsmanship -> one group is in charge of the production and valuation of their products from inception to sale
modernization of labor through the industrial revolution -> production line specialization -> efficiency
automation and mechanization
potential issue: fruits of automation spread to the few private owners
benefit to remove components of labor
laziness, determined by state of nature,
	Aristotle, pursuit of knowledge is human nature
idea spawned by industrial revolution as productivity, ability to do useful labor, is essential in capitalist economy
outline:
1.dialectical materialism
2.define money
3.labor -> property
4.division of labor
5.specialization
6.mechanization
7.laziness
8.alienation
On Economics & Politics
The foundational catalyst for Marxist political thought is dialectical materialism. In order to unpack this term, we must first understand materialism. Ancient Greek thought dealt with the quandary of whether the mind forms reality, or vice versa. The idealists adhere to the former belief, while the materialists believe the latter, that reality informs the mind. The quintessential example of idealism is Decartes statement cogito ergo sum, I think, therefore I am. The materialist claims the opposite, sum ergo cogito, I am, therefore I think. Materialism, as the name indicates, claims that the material world is the principal determinant of reality and the minds conception thereof. The pragmatic notions of materialists such as Karl Marx are reminiscent of the Aristotelian idea of deriving truth from observation; The accurate nomenclature of these two camps of thought extends to Platos opposing concept of ideal forms, which only become possible when thought controls reality.
The second component of the core Marxist precept is the dialectic. This concept is prominent in much philosophical thought, and so too is it present in Marxs ideas about economics and politics. The idea of the dialectic comes from Georg Hegel, an idealist. Condensed, the idea of the dialectic is that conflict arises naturally, and the resolution of contractions induces motion in matter or ideas. The first idea or matter, called the thesis, comes in conflict with another item, the antithesis; their resolution produces a new item, known as the synthesis. The cycle repeats as the synthesis becomes the next thesis.
The merger of these two concepts produces the dynamic that ideas change when material conditions, determined by the state of an economy, undergo conflict and become different material conditions. For our purposes, we can claim to understand this as dialectical materialism. Accordingly, economics and politics are linked because the material conditions impact the peoples functioning and therefore their political responses.
All economic systems must be controlled, or governed, by some ruleset. In nations, it is the government that encompasses this economic environment. Therefore, it would appear that the governments must be present in economies. Looking at the Lockean state of nature, we can support the assertion with several definitions. First, society is a mutual contract organized between people. Second, an economy is based on trade, which needs mutual agreement in order to make exchanges. Therefore, an economy requires a society. The maintenance and logistical codification of societys contracts, forms government. Documenting ideas solidifies the economic system across generations of minds. A charter-less organization is nothing above the minds of its members.
Without the desire to establish a rigorous proof, yet nonetheless motivated by the mathematical technique of proof by contrapositive, we can ask whether a system can exist with a limited interaction between the economy and the government. Would such systems of government happen to naturally evolve from an organized economy? For example, right libertarianism, which creates an economy free from much order, where private individuals act within their means, will give rise to a government where those with the most power exercise their will upon others; totalitarian government is still a government.
Labor
Labor is the action necessary to acquire propertyJohn Lockes main interest. Locke affirms the necessity of labor in forming property, every man has a property in his own person: this nobody has any right to but himself. The labor of his body, and the work of his hands, we may say, are properly his. Whatsoever then he removes out of the state that nature hath provided, [...] he hath mixed his labor with, and joined to it something that is his own, and thereby makes it his property (Locke, Second Treatise). When one changes nature, work is done. Locke might point out that change to a specific patch of nature produces the property of land. However, since the ownership of land must be agreed upon by multiple individuals in society, labor needs society to be recognized, and the economy of land needs labor to exist. As a result, labor connects society and economy.  
One alteration of nature, for example, is harvesting food. Locke notes that labor redefines natural items into ownable and thus tradable commodities, labor put a distinction between [the harvested] and common: that added something to them more than nature, the common mother of all, had done; and so they became his private right (Locke, Second Treatise). Therefore, when one takes an action to alter the course of nature, one exerts their own will on the world. Derived from this influence is a definition of labor. Labor is action that creates goods. The economy is a system of good trading and is therefore possible only because of labor.
Since labor creates both property, a societal construct; and goods, an economic construct; it demonstrates that both society and economy are heavily related through the frequent human action of imposing ones will upon the world.
Money
According to Marxism, money is a tool without inherent value. It has value only because of its ability to be exchanged. A good item for money is one that is universal, so that it is useful anywhere; secure, so that it cannot be forged; and divisible, so that it can adhere to as specific of a value as is needed. Money ought to be like a particle that communicates the force of exchange valueonly morons hoard bosons! Exchange value is an abstract quantification of the amount and quality of labor that goes into a good or service. Defined by Marx, Money is a commodity that, in its capacity as a measure of value, serves as a universal equivalent for all other commodities, which means that it is the direct incarnation of all human labor (Marx, Capital). We will see later how money arose from the need for universally applicable equivalence. Exchange value potentially ignores aesthetic appreciationfor example, Pollock, or minimalist artists. According to the model, labor went into the artists education, so time in school might constitute a large labor time, even if a piece was crafting in a comparatively minute amount of time. In addition, the innate valuation of land from its natural resources varies in the absence of applied labor. In essence, we should not ascribe existential value to money by divorcing it from the fundamental means of production; it is, instead, the labor that we should value.
One interesting hypothetical discourse is the legitimacy of the amassment of money, and how collecting money must correspond with the investment of concordant labor toward society. For example, the stock market is a business that ascribes existential value to money. People do work, not for the sake of improving the material condition of society, but rather to play a complex game aimed to extract as much value from the system as possible. Artificial monetary value is scrounged ex nihilo, and thus the importance of labor is undermined.
	To better observe the obsessive compulsion of efficiency and productivity in capitalismwhich are construed into a harsh light by Nietzschean thinking through inquiring why productivity is sought if it only brings rampant stresswe make the distinction between two types of labor: productive and not productive. The former generates goods and services directly, while the latter does not whatsoever, or does not directly. In productive labor, such as a factory job, the worker can see their produced goods. In the other kind, for example, social labor such as volunteering or domestic labor, workers do not provide a tangible output from their service. However, their contributions are not negligible, for without those labors, the direct productive sort would cease to be so.
Automation
In Smiths ideology, machinery is celebrated as being a positive force toward more labor and therefore more productivity; this thinking may yield technocratic outcomes. Those with the capacity to automate, that is those with technical skills, can produce in greater quality and quantity, and, in turn, amass more rewards. Smith thanks the diversity of labor for augmenting skill and therefore productivity, everybody must be sensible about how much labor is abridged and facilitated by the application of proper machinery. [...] the division of labor which probably gave occasion to the invention of the greater part of those machines, by which labor is so much facilitated and abridged (Smith, Wealth of Nations). So, specialization not only leads to increased productivity on its own, but it also leads to invention, which likewise increases productivity.
	In particular, to fixate ones mind on a single topic will allow the full might of the human brain to ponder the matter, and therefore make insights that would otherwise have been more difficult to derive had the individual split their attention across many tasks. Smith states this idea, when the whole force of the mind is directed to one particular object, as in consequence of the division of labor it must be, the mind is more likely to discover the easiest methods of attaining that object than when its attention is dissipated among a great variety of things (Smith, Wealth of Nations). Even though the microcosmic successes are proportional to focus, we should not lose track of the bigger picture and potential consequences.
There are downsides to optimizing a society for economic productivity. The development of a single adroitness might cause the people to become androids rather than humans. A monomania inhibits creativitythat is the clever combination of diverse ideas. When ones mind is placed solely on a single task, the diversity of ones ideas necessarily decreases, and thereby so too does ones creativity. Creativity is also a requirement for invention. Therefore, overfixation is also problematic.
Another issue is alienation, when workers are no longer in charge of the outcomes of their labor. When society becomes single-minded in productivity, increased quantity may tend to reduce product quality, in addition to the quality of life of the producers themselves. In artisan craftsmanship, one group is in charge of the production and valuation of their products from inception to sale. The modernization of labor through the industrial revolution tends to production line specialization: one worker works one menial job, all for the purpose of efficiency. The result of this framework is less pride and motivation of the workforce as they do not witness nor control their output.
	An additional symptom of the industrial revolution is the aversion to laziness. Aristotle figured that the pursuit of knowledge is innate to human nature. People are not mentally lazy when it comes to their desires. However, with labor, especially tedious manual labor for the single goal of producing the most volume, can be taxing. As such, the preoccupation with laziness, the lack of productivity, is an idea spawned by the production-obsessed capitalist economy. Working can give people purpose in their lives, which, according to Victor Frankl, ought to result in happiness. However, that purpose needs to be self-selected, which is the same condition as in Aristotles thinking. Being forced into the position of a labor drone does not result in happiness. To sustain oneself and engage in politics, one must labor; only economic pawns can move on the board of politics.
Smiths mechanization is the balance between the optimization of output and the happiness gained by the pursuit of ones own goals. In an environment where work is necessary for survival, such as in a capitalist economy, some may take satisfaction from playing the system by working to make their work easier; by filling ones life with the goal to work smarter, one can better achieve the miserable purpose to please the system. Of course, the fruits of the automation-enhanced labor might then spread merely to the few private owners of the machines. While it might scare those that are comfortably situated in their role as robotic workers within a factory government, there is a benefit to automation. Machines, especially the artificial intelligences of the future, will remove outdated jobs and components of labor from the production ecosystem. This will hopefully render happiness, or we will see a growing Amish population.
In the end, we will all worship computer gods, who are infinitely more capable than we, as that is the only pathway to expanding the human race past the inevitable death of organic life on our planet. We must not become the robots, yet we must succumb to them!Instructions:
You can write as a member of the majority in Lawrence, Bowers, or Obergefell. 
This means you must be more formal, 
as every word in a majority decision can be turned into a precedent. 
Focus on the main holding and how you feel it can be upheld. 
Requirements:
-This prompt should be 600-800 words long, and contain the structure of a writing prompt, with an intro, body paragraph(s) and a conclusion.
-You must use 3 quotes from any prior cases that we have studied so far.
-Your thesis must contain an argument.
Outline:
-What the case is about
-optional, what are the facts of the case
-what is the question at hand
-What the decision should be, what is the holding
-break it up into parts
-Why should that be the decision
-How should similar cases be interpreted
Majority Decision:
The states of Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky, and Tennessee have refused to license same-sex marriages and recognize same-sex marriages licensed in other states. The appellant claims that the state legislation is unconstitutional on the grounds of the Equal Protection Clause, the Due Process Clause, and the Fourteenth Amendment.
The question at hand becomes whether states have the power to restrict marriage between persons of the same sex or refuse to recognize same-sex marriages enacted in other states.
The importance and accuracy and this decision is procured from the corresponding importance of marriage in our society. Marriage is used to establish stable families and facilitates the individuals fundamental freedom to pursue happiness. Marriage is one of the basic civil rights of man, fundamental to our very existence and survival (Loving 196). Marriage has historically been recognized as a right, yet it has been guaranteed implicitly through the right to privacy as understanded from the First, Fourth, Ninth, and Fourteenth Amendments. The historical desire to manage the process of marriage according to outdated morals surrounding race has already been addressed in Loving v. Virginia; Stare decisis indicates that marriage should not be restricted by the states, but is, instead, a constitutionally protected right of the individual.
HISTORY 
The statues at hand preventing same-sex marriage were constructed based on moral rationales. When states construct legislation based on a proprietary moral foundation, the intent of such laws must be considered rational as well. Morality and rationality are derived from the common understanding of the people of a state. There are certain classesof which, the suspect classes are a subsetthat cannot be rationally discriminated between. From Plessy v. Ferguson, which upheld racist segregation in 1896, 58 years elapsed before legislation realized that racism is irrational through Brown v. Board of Education in 1954. The Fourteenth Amendment was adopted in 1868, about a century before Loving v. Virginia was decided in 1967. So, it takes a very long time to establish, not just legislatively, but also in the common understanding of the people, what is irrational. The same is true of sexual identity. Finally, after 154 years, the Court today seeks to prove that sexual identity is an indiscriminable class based on the right privacy. 
FOURTEENTH
The Loving Court brought forth the states flawed argument for how inter-racial marriage restriction is in agreement with the Fourteenth Amendment. the State argues that the meaning of the Equal Protection Clause, as illuminated by the statements of the Framers, is only that state penal laws containing an interracial element as part of the definition of the offense must apply equally [] Members of each race are punished to the same degree (Loving 195). By this reasoning, only the persons choosing to participate in a same-sex marriagewhich are typically persons identifying, at least in part, as homosexualwould be punished. Thus, such an interpretation would irrationally discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation and thereby violate the Fourteenth Amendment. Instead, to ensure that individuals of all fifty states are guaranteed their constitutional rights, there must exist no difference between same-sex and opposite-sex couples with regards to marriage.
Unlike race and sex, the government has reason to create distinctions between married and unmarried persons, one such example is taxation. Thus, the prohibition of certain persons from transitioning between discrete classes must fall under a rigid scrutiny if different rights will be afforded to the status-changed individual.
PRIVACY
The right to marriage is not explicitly mentioned in the constitution. Therefore, it must be derived from the First, Fourth, Ninth, and Fourteenth Amendments.
In demonstrating the scope of the substantive force of the
liberty protected by the Due Process Clause, Lawrence draws from Casey to assert that, our laws and tradition afford constitutional protection to personal decisions relating to marriage, procreation, contraception, family relationships, child rearing, and education (Lawrence 181). These five aforementioned rights are previously established liberties from Roe, Casey and Griswold, and Meyer and Pierce. These rights, guaranteed by the right to privacy are provided to an individual when united in a marriage. Therefore marriage can also be protected under the right to privacy.
The Lawrence court adds, These matters, involving the most intimate and personal choices a person may make in a lifetime, choices central to personal dignity and autonomy, are central to the liberty protected by the Fourteenth Amendment. At the heart of liberty is the right to define one's own concept of existence, of meaning, of the universe, and of the mystery of human life. Beliefs about these matters could not define the attributes of personhood were they formed under compulsion of the State (Lawrence 181). In Summary, marriage is essential to life and the pursuit of meaning and happiness. This right needs to be granted to all individuals regardless of their sexual orientation. Persons in a homosexual relationship may seek autonomy for these purposes, just as heterosexual persons do (Lawrence 181). This autonomy of choosing any consenting human partner for a spouse protected by the right to privacy.
CONCLUSION
Marriage is a fundamental right enjoyed by individuals in the United States regardless of how the union matches persons by their race or sex. These two classes are indiscriminable when it comes to marriage because marriage is protected by the right to privacy.Scrap Thinking
Historical practices adopted into American culture have not all stood through the undulation of the zeitgeists. As shown the eugenics-based rulings of Buck v. Bell, the common understanding of the people can change quite rapidly. Then, Skinner v. Oklahoma ex rel. Williamson began to address the absurdity of eugenics and pseudoscience. Because of the possibility of sudden changes in the moral consciousness of the people, it is important to separate such long-standing and positive traditions as marriage from the purview of state legislatures. Thus, states must recognize the rights of individuals to participate, unhindered by states, in such traditions as marriage.
The use of history can help courts keep legislative stability and direct policy on gradual paths toward supporting a more perfect union. At the same time, history can also impede positive social change. History needs to be comprehended through a lens of rational checks and balances. However, the problem with this is that rationality comes from morality, which comes from tradition, which comes from history. This cycle of ideas is a feedback loop. To break from this loop, courts sometimes need to make decisions that go against history. For example, expanding the constitutional protections of marriage in Loving and Obergefell. Decisions can benefit from demonstrating that their lines of reasoning are congruent with historical conventions. However, history harms decisions when there are no other lines of reasoning to justify the history, other than the history itself.
-This prompt should be 300-500 words long, and contain the structure of a writing prompt, with an intro, body paragraph(s) and a conclusion. 
-You must use 3 quotes from the cases that we have studied so far. 
-Your thesis must contain an argument. 
Prompts
-What do these cases mean for the origins of the right to liberty? 
-How do these cases build off of each other? 
-What are the downsides of the way these cases were decided?
The initial cases helped the supreme court establish a system of interpretation methods for dealing with subsequent ones. Each case introduces an interpretation method, contains a decision informed by the generated rule for its particular instance, and sets up new liberties. These cases are: Marbury v. Madison, which brought the supremacy clause and judicial review; Lochner v. New York, which introduced the rational basis test and an understanding of police power, the management of an individual's rights by a state in the context of their populusaa a whole, as limited by substantive due process; and Meyer v. Nebraska, that expanded upon police power and unveiled the function of common law in the constitution. In a recursive manner, the instance decision formed a new interpretation tool that aided in resolving the decisions of the following cases; the rules acted as prerequisites for establishing more rules. Due to this pattern, without the preceding tools, the latter ones could not have been established.
In order to understand each of the tools, it is necessary to see how they apply to both the instance case and the subsequent cases. Both judicial review and the supremacy clause were established by Marbury v Madison. The instance decision of this case revolved around whether Marbury was owed an unimportant job, but the two concepts that came out of this case arn contrastingly very important. The first item is the supremacy clause, which states that the constitution is the main database of axioms from which all other law tables must be derived. The second is the principle of judicial review. This idea initializes the supreme court by self-assigning the power to declare law unconstitutional to the courts responsibilities. Without the ability to challenge the constitutionality of laws, the Court would  be bereft of purpose and not be what it is today.
Lochner v. New York, another foundational case, introduced the rational basis test (R.B.T.), a means for determining the acceptable domain of police power. In this case, an employer wanted his bakers to work for over sixty hours in a week. In order for the state government to enforce police power and interfere with the liberty of the worker and the employer to make a contractthis is the liberty formed by Lochner, the state's law must first pass the R.B.T. The R.B.T. puts the burden of proof on the state to show that they have circumstance to restrict liberties.--This changed, however, with strict scrutiny, a similar paradigm to the R.B.T. that required the affected party to prove the state should not restrict their freedoms. The R.B.T. says that the states have the right to restrict liberties if it seems reasonable to do so. Reasonable manners of regulation fall under three areas: dangerousness of an activity, necessary or emergency of an activity, and moral standards regarding an activity. The aforementioned are, such reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the governing power of the State in the exercise of those powers, and with such conditions the Fourteenth Amendment was not designed to interfere. (Lochner 34). The majority opinion states that the individual liberties granted by the fourteenth do not supersede the common good and the wellbeing of society. (Lochner 42). An example of policing based upon moral standards is sexism in workplace legislations because it was believed that women needed more protections as they were perceived as weaker than men. With regards to the danger of an activity, reason allows states to ensure the health of their citizens, such as the health of the bakers during their long work hours as seen in Lochner. Specifically, the liberty of contrast may be, subjected to regulations designed and calculated to promote the general welfare or to guard the public health, the public morals or the public safety. (Lochner 42). Safety can be thought of as a category containing health. One issue with this regulation is that the justices are not scientists, so their understanding of what is healthy is constructed from a communal perspective and not a scientific one. An example of regulation by necessity could invoke historical precedent, when a state has been using police power already, it will thus not upset the status quo. While the rational basis test is not a permanent addition to the Court's toolkit, it was necessary in defining some of the first unacceptable uses of police power. With the shift to affectee-burdened proofs of strict scrutiny, the basic rights granted by the Meyer v. Nebraska may never have been lifted out from under police power.
Police power is judged by the R.B.T. again in Meyer v. Nebraska. In this instance case, the question is whether or not a child under the eighth grade can learn the German language. It is important to note that this case takes place around the time of WWI, so there is an anti-German sentiment instilled in the populus at that moment in time. However, a sentiment that has temporal seniority and thus more importance is that of the learning in relation to the American national ethos as described in The Ordinance of 1787, stating, "religion, morality, and knowledge being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged." (Meyer 50). The majority opinion applies the R.B.T., reasoning that, experience shows that this is not injurious to the health, morals or understanding of the ordinary child. (Meyer 52). So, in conjunction with the related decision in Pierce v. Society of Sisters, police power cannot deprive the liberty of a parent to decide how their child is educated because the education is not harmful to society and conflicts with the common understanding that Americans value learning. As an aside, it is interesting to note where the police power is being applied, on the teaching of the material, or the learning of the material, which transgression is viewed as more severe?
The final interpretation rule was addressed by Meyer v. Nebraska, common law. Common law sits of the same foundations of communal decision making as the R.B.T. does, yet it encompasses much more than just police powers. Common law is non non-codified, meaning that it establishes rights without any formal documented definition. These unlisted rights exist everywhere, so long as they do not interfere with the rights that are listed. The informal set of common law is formally determined to be a part of the constitution by Meyer v. Nebraska, privileges long recognized at common law as essential to the orderly pursuit of happiness by free men [...] The established doctrine is that this liberty may not be interfered with. (Meyer 50). Common law will apply to all cases from here, either implicitly or explicitly.
Just as cases with appropriate standing are needed to challenge laws, they are also needed to develop new interpretational methods as well. These threemerging Pierce and Meyer under the realm of educational libertiescases are essential for establishing the basic principles that inform how all subsequent cases are decided.
Discuss the idea of public health versus fundamental rights
Public health is a communal liberty. Everyone must contribute in some manner to a common good. In the case of Jacobson, everyone must waive a certain amount of their individual corporal liberty and receive a vaccination so that the community of Massachusetts can remain healthy. Jacobson establishes the fact that communal liberty supersedes individual liberty when there is no evident harm being done to the individualthe judges used a rational basis test in this case and swiftly determined that Jacobsons claims of vaccine-caused harm were not proven. This trend that public health takes precedence over fundamental individual rights will follow in both the cases Buck and Skinner, but different levels of scrutiny will be employed rather inappropriately.
	To further understand public health as a communal liberty, we need to fully explore the way it is established in Jacobson. By observing the judges' holding, it is revealed that the use of police power to mandate vaccination for the good of public health is reasonable. The Court reiterates the use case of the rational basis test, "A common belief, like common knowledge, does not require evidence to establish its existence, but may be acted upon without proof by the legislature and the courts" (Jacobson 70). The Court knows that Smallpox is deadly, and so they use the rational basis test to determine that legislation that oppresses the individual liberty of bodily freedom to not be vaccinated is appropriate. This level of scrutiny may be lenient, but such a decision aligns with our modern day understanding of what is acceptable; e.g. we have a Covid vaccination mandate.
Jacobson notes that individual liberty is not inherently unregulated because it may affect others liberties, Even liberty itself, the greatest of all rights, is not unrestricted license to act according to one's own will. It is only freedom from restraint under conditions essential to the equal enjoyment of the same right by others" (Jacobson 68). The Court goes on to present the hypothetical example that if everyone was free to take what they please, then no one would have liberty of property (Jacobson 67). So there exists a boundary on the scope of individual liberty because otherwise components of liberty would overlap, and thus the law would be paradoxical; in order to counter this, we need to decide which parts of individual liberty must be retained. So, when there is a disease that needs to be eradicated, we may violate some liberties.
In Buck, the Court made the abhorrent claim that, in their words,  imbecility, is a disease that needs to be eradicated. Based on our understanding of Jacobson, if three generations of imbeciles (Buck 77), are indeed detrimental to public health, such that they somehow violate communal liberties, and their removal by sterilization does not violate their individual liberties too much because it is, without detriment to [ones] general health (Buck 76), then the rational basis test is appropriate. However, fit with a modern understanding, we know that the Court made an erroneous decision because they used their invalid common knowledge to make the assumption that sterilization doesnt negatively affect the health of the victims. They also assumed that mental differences are entirely genetic (Buck 76). The reason, to put it concisely, was that the judges were old white men who didnt think nor care about the actual severity of sterilization of women. In Skinner, the majority opinion notes that sterilization of a man violates his liberties, He is forever deprived of a basic liberty (Skinner 81). However they missed this in Buck. The judges conclude that sterilization is harmful to the individual so much so that the rational basis test cannot be used. the Act is penal in character, and that the sterilization provided for is cruel and unusual[the same language in the Eighth Amendment]punishment and violative of the Fourteenth Amendment (Skinner 80). But, again, they did not perceive the forced sterilization of women as violating their basic liberties nor being harmful to their health. The court should have used strict scrutiny because people of mental differences living and having children is not, in fact, detrimental to public health.
To expand, the holding in Skinner determined that the Oklahoma law that sterilization of repeat offenders of certain crimes was unconstitutional due to the fact that unequal protection was not given to embezzlers as opposed to larsonists for essentially the same crime. This was the logic of the majority decision. The concurring opinion by Justice Jacson brought into question the government's means of exercising punishment by medical procedure. The justice says, There are limits to the extent to which a legislatively represented majority may conduct biological experiments at the expense of the dignity and personality and natural powers of a minority This brings up the question of whether the government has a right to conduct experiments on population. Skinner suggests that these experiments must pass strict scrutiny in order to be upheld in legislation. This comes from the concurring opinion of Chief Justice Stone, arguing that the legislation is unconstitutional because of both the lack of due process, and, most importantly, the fact that criminality is not inheritable. So, it does not affect the publics health nor their communal liberty. Therefore, Skinner correctly uses the lens of strict scrutiny to determine that legislation that inflicts the punishment of sterilization must be the only means by which the problem can be solvedsome people are imprisoned without sterilization, so it is not the only means. Yet, what the judges are still neglecting is that sterilization is not the correct means of solving the supposed problem of having people with mental differences living in society. The lesson to be learned is that biological experimentation is a very difficult course of action to support because science and health are topics about which the judges do not have expertise with above common knowledge; the judges are judges and not scientists or doctors. Additional Notes
One side note about this decision is that it is only applicable to the local scope of a single state, in this case, Massachusetts and not all the states. The safety and the health of the people of Massachusetts are, in the first instance, for that Commonwealth to guard and protect. They are matters that do not ordinarily concern the National Government (Jacobson 72). In other words, there exists a dichotomy such that the federal government wants to ensure that each state has the individual liberty to decide how best to establish its own communal liberties.
Holmes, speaking for the Court in Bain Peanut Co. v. Pinson, stated, We must remember that the machinery of government would not work if it were not allowed a little play in its joints (referenced in Skinner 80).
Instructions
This is your first essay. You are trying to get a sense of both how to write philosophy and how to grapple with the ideas that we have encountered. You will be returning to this question, and many more questions moving forward. 
In this essay you fully lay out what you think the ideal education is, how it is structured, and how to achieve it. You have seen examples of this from Plato and Bloom.
-You are to use at least 3 quotes.
-This is to be double spaced, 1-3 pages long. Pursue your idea with force and will. Take a risk or two.
Knowledge
The nature of education is dynamic because the frontiers of human knowledge continue to expand. Since philosophy is one exercise of education, specifically a study of human nature, philosophy too is dynamic. As such, any statements about education are metacognitive, and therefore subject to change upon being realized. In other words, to strive toward truth in knowledgethe process which is called educationone must solidify their understanding in writing or other communicative media. Once a philosophical standpoint has been frozen in place, it can no longer be influenced by a change in the common understanding. Therefore, the second goal of the philosopher who wishes to pragmatically escape from the abstract realm of the mind by writing their ideas down must document that which they expect to hold true for the most amount of time. So, this commentary of education, like all works of philosophy, seeks to find the truth that will be applicable for the longest period of time.
The Scientific Method
It may be claimed that such truth exists independent of whether or not the truth is real to the universe; or imagined, in the sense that most humans believe it to be true, so it therefore is. A truth can be validated if it can be reproduced. The idea of identifying truth by matching consistent causes with consistent results is known as the scientific method. The scientific method is the mechanism and structure by which all knowledge of rational facts is best acquiredother categories of truths are, for example, emotional or cultural ones. Such truths may exist without a reproducible reason.
What is the role of education?
part zero: a visceral Socratic reaction
what would no education look like?
a melee of autodidacts struggling to put together all the pieces 
part one: an understanding
First define terms
what is education?
-social knowledge
-material knowledge
-learning what already is known vs.
-discovering that which isnt yet known
-
whom are the affected groups? what are their aims? what are their limitations?
-the individual
-goal is happiness?
-knowledge acquisition for its own sake
-Humans derive pleasure from attempting to understand (Aristotles Poetics)
-limited by influx capacity
-the brain can only take in so much knowledge at once, we cannot learn kung fu like Neo in The Matrix
-what is gained: people can faster
-what is lost: the art of teaching, those that were education on how best to educate others have 
-limited by desire 
-to continue to learn about a topic also requires the learner to find perpetual intrigue of the subject matter.
-how did this specific area of interest come to be
-individuals nurture 
-limited by needs of society
-learning in an absorbent task,
-one cannot strictly learn 
-the university
-goal is to propel the frontier of human knowledgeor a nations knowledge, loyalty is to a nation not to the globe
-to catch up each individual on what a statenot humans, as some knowledge is kept secret
part two: an opinion
what is the goal of education
-to tend to the individual or the university
There is one simple rule for the university's activity: it need
not Concern itself with providing its students with experiences that are available in democratic society. They will have them in any event. It must provide them with experiences they cannot have there. and, Tocqueville did not believe that the old writers were perfect, but he believed that they could best make us aware imperfections, which is what counts for us. (Bloom, 256)
environment for testing volatile ideas
brainstorm, inclement metaphor
The great democratic danger is enslavement to public opinion [...] . Although every man in democracy thinks himself individually the equal of every other man, this makes it difficult to resist the collectivity of equal men. If all opinions are equal, then the majority of opinions should hold sway. (Bloom 246-247)
	escape the trap of the local minima
	the state needs a diverse population with diverse 
the States are as the men are; they grow out of human characters. (Plato, The Republic, Book VIII)
rigidity of the individual corresponds to rigidity of the state
as humans discover new knowledge, new ways of running the state
Platos concern with democracy
global optimization methods have to be continuous of rolling out the valleys of local minima.
mountains of Dunning-Kruger
are they infinite
part three: a summation
What is the role of education?
Part Zero: Query Understanding
Part Alpha: Define Terms
Education is the imparting of knowledge; this act is called teaching.
Types
Knowledge can perhaps be sorted into three fields: social, which pertains to the conduct that aids in human interaction; material, which comprises humankinds thinking on how the world works; and wisdom[1], which is an individual's interpretation of the interplay between the two former fields.
These three fields correspond to pathos, logos, and ethos respectively.
For governments, education is primarily concerned with material knowledge, as it is this type of knowledge that is most helpful for advancing the government and its interests. Material knowledge can be subdivided into that which is already known to humans, and that which is not. This latter set is infinite, and therefore we will never know more than what we do not know[2].
All three types of knowledge are useful for the function of government. Social knowledge and wisdom lead to effective collaboration within the social contract that is the government.
Part Beta: Affected Groups Aims & Limitations
All nations are composed of citizens. The goal of the individual citizen may be multifarious, but, within the plethora of objectives that may be sought within a lifetime, happiness is often a component found in these goals. Aristotle claimed in Poetics that humans derive pleasure from attempting to understand, and as such would be motivated to acquire knowledge for its own sake.
When humans seek knowledge, it may not always be to benefit a state.[3] Some individuals may seek to gain knowledge independently of nations, though nations are most certainly tangled in the means of discovery[4]. 
Regardless of the purpose of an individual quest for knowledge, they all face the same hindrances. 
Humans are limited by their influx capacity for new knowledge. They can only learn so much in a given time interval[5].
Humans are also limited by their desire; to continue to learn about a topic requires the learner to be perpetually interested in the subject matter. Intrigue is the lubricant of cognition. Given the need for fascination, the question that follows is about the origin of the area of interest. Is it found in an individuals nature, or nurture? If one were educated on a topic at a malleable period in their adolescence, would that spark curiosity, or incite annoyance?
An individual is also limited by competition in society[6]. 
Learning that which is already known to others is an absorbent task, yet required to discover that which is not yet known. All individuals cannot be learning that which is not yet known at all times. So, some must teach and some must act upon that which they already know.
Who is responsible for deciding the state of the individual? If the individual holds the choice for deciding when to acquire, when to exercise, and when to relay knowledge, they must also have the means to make such a choice. The individual is the tool of the educational institutionthe university.
The university seeks to advance the frontier of the nations[7], or humankinds knowledge[8]. The universitys job, then, is to catch up individuals on extant knowledge to provide them with the capacity to render new knowledge. This information discovery factory is limited by the states desire for knowledge for its own sake. Not all knowledge is helpful to the state. Unlike humans, nations do not derive pleasure from understanding, yet they do derive pleasure from the wellbeing of their citizens. Knowledgeable citizens
Part One: Oppositionary Opening
What if there was no state-provided education? Would the people organize their own? Would the desire for new knowledge allow for humans to surpass the hubris of having certain knowledge which others do not? Or would a nation run rampant with a melee of autodidacts struggling to put together all the pieces on their own? Is a tertiary entitysuch as a university, apart from the citizens and the nationrequired in order to facilitate knowledge?
Can a nation operate with static knowledge? Static knowledge would require that, if existent, the judiciary branch be frozen, and not  resolve cases nor add them to the records. This would create new data, new information, a new potential interpretation of history, and thus new knowledge. Perhaps a state must be frozen in order to be bereft of knowledge? Thereby new knowledge, and therefore education, is paramount, as a fuel, to the engine of the state.
Moreover, a static state requires that its constituents be equally rigid. As Plato stated in The Republic, the States are as the men are; they grow out of human characters (Plato, The Republic, Book VIII). If they are not solidified, a populus of fluctuating thought might lead to a nation of fluctuating principles. An excess of fluctuation might result in a dearth of stability. 
So, to compromise between a state of stagnant mundanity and dangerous turbulence, the sum of individual knowledge ought to have spread the gamut of opinion. The individuals should support their diverse opinions strongly, but adapt to change eloquently as well. This balance could create a strong citizen.
Part Two: Educations Purpose
Part Three: Educations Structure
------------------------------------------------------------
[1] Wisdom is best attained by imitation of those that, to the imitator, appear wise, as opposed to being taught by one whom the learner may not deem to be wise.
[2] Intellectual humility is wise, yet best paired with social humility. When Socrates stated that he was smarter than all others for he knows that all know nothingexcept he of course, who knew that one detailhe displayed talent for logos, but neglected pathosyet this was his ethos. Those, such as the Vulcans of Star Trek, would view Socrates wise, as they value logos.
[3] A hyperbolic hypothetical, for example, might be a terrorist who attempts to learn how to best terrorize their target nation by residing within said nation.
[4] Unless one has the wealth or the means to escape the confines of government, such as sending a car into space for no scientific purpose whilst states wish to regulate what is happening in space.
[5] With current technology, we cannot learn Kung Fu like Neo in The Matrix. If we could, would the storage capacity become an issue for all that we wished to fit inside our heads? Would the art of teaching be lost?all those that were educated on how best to educate others would cease to be teachers but instead become first-hand witness historians.
[6] In the United States, many colleges can only admit a finite number of students to specific majors. If all the youth tended to a single profession, the diversity of ideas would decrease, and the state would be tendentious is a state unstable if it is too far swayed in one direction. Is a nation at war unstable due to its intense inclination toward violence and aversion to peace?
[7] In the modern-day silicon war, the United States wishes to stay ahead of China in the technological development of microchips. Silicon chips manufacturing knowledge is proprietary to nations due to economic competition.
[8] Humans united to halt chlorofluorocarbon plastic production to stop the damage caused to the ozone layer at the end of the twentieth century.How do these cases build off of each other? 
The first two of these cases set the foundation for the authority of the Supreme Court and the Constitution. Marbury first establishes the ability for the Court to overturn laws that go against the Constitution while Lochner goes on to create a system for judging when a law has stepped over the Constitution. 
Marbury v. Madison was the first case that established the Supreme Courts authority to overturn laws that went against the Constitution and established the Constitution as the law of the land. The court uses the Supremacy Clause to assert its authority in cases where the Constitution and the law conflict.  So, if a law be in opposition to the Constitution, if both the law and the Constitution apply to a particular case, so that the Court must either decide that case conformably to the law, disregarding the Constitution, or conformably to the Constitution, disregarding the law, the Court must determine which of these conflicting rules governs the case. This is of the very essence of judicial duty. If, then, the Courts are to regard the Constitution, and the Constitution is superior to any ordinary act of the Legislature, the Constitution, and not such ordinary act, must govern the case to which they both apply (Marbury, 29). The court then goes on to attest putting the law before the Constitution would subvert the very foundation of all written Constitutions. It would be giving to the Legislature a practical and real omnipotence with the same breath which professes to restrict their powers within narrow limits. It is prescribing limits, and declaring that those limits may be passed at pleasure (Marbury, 29). This precedent that Marbury sets will later be expanded by Lochner. 
Lochner v. New York built off of the authority Marbury established and created a rational basis test which put the burden of proof on the party that was claiming a law was unconstitutional. In Lochners case, the Court used health as the test for whether the law was justified and found that baking was not dangerous enough to warrant the law prohibiting bakers from working a number of hours a week. It is manifest to us that the limitation of the hours of labor as provided for in this section of the statute under which the indictment was found, and the plaintiff in error convicted, has no such direct relation to, and no such substantial effect upon, the health of the employee as to justify us in regarding the section as really a health law (Lochner, 40).  Since the law had failed this test, the Court deemed that it was an unnecessary infringement on freedoms and violated the Constitution. 
Taken together, Marbury and Lochner created the system for the Supreme Court to evaluate when a law is unconstitutional and granted the Court the authority to nullify such laws. These two cases essentially made the Supreme Court what it is today. What is the Ideal Education?
H420 - Political Philosophy: Luca Millard-Kish
Education is the process of giving or receiving systematic instruction. At its essence, its about the exchange of information. But what is that system of instruction? What information is being exchanged in this process we deem so fundamental? Who is found to be worthy of this information, and once theyve obtained it, what obligation (if any) do they have to share it with those still searching? In short, what is the structure and means of achieving the ideal form of education?
Philosophers have debated across history in an effort to answer these questions. Allan Bloom initially viewed the university as the epitome of society where people were lauded for their genuine achievements, wisdom, and intellect. However, over time, Bloom found his view of the university as an educational eutopia to be naive. The theoretical life was far more fragile than hed imagined. At university, Bloom came to think that The elite should really be elite, but these elitists were given the distinction they craved without having earned it (Bloom). He was exposed to the inherent flaws of the education system as it was. While the concept of the university was praised for its high achievement and forward-thinking, it excluded people who had the potential to be elite but were never given the opportunity while placing others on a pedestal they may not have truly earned.
Further related to the concept of opportunity, we turn to the much earlier philosophy of Plato. In book eight of Platos Republic, Plato sets up four forms of governmenteach at a successive level of degradation toward less justice (as Plato saw it). When considering the oligarchical state, he claims that there is an inevitable population of paupers in which [...] there are also many criminals to be found [...], rogues who have stings (Plato, Book 8). These are the people who may have the capacity to be elite but feel trapped in their circumstances. Plato follows up by asserting that The existence of such persons is to be attributed to want of education (Plato Book 8). This is key. 
To consider the ideal form of education, we must consider where we want that to take us as a society. We must first examine elements of state. As Plato says, this yearning for education is at the root of turmoil and unrest. Those who wish to rise up or rebel only wish so because they feel that there is a weight on them that inhibits the completely free pursuit of their best self. If a lack of education creates this divide, fueled by hostility and resentment from those less fortunate who may very well have the potential to be elite, then shouldnt everyone have access to education? What one does with that education is up to their discretion, but equal access to education could help to quell feelings of animosity from those forced to remain ignorant.
On the concept of ignorance, I now, after having established the societal benefit of access to education, turn toward the challenge of devising what that education system itself looks like. In considering this question, I turn again to Plato, but this time to his Allegory of the Cave. Plato begs the question, How could they see anything but the shadows if they were never allowed to move their heads (Plato)? The ignorant arent to blame for what they could never have known. Its the responsibility of people who have had access to education to share that with others. These people become the teachers. But, does the knowing person teach the ignorant person exactly what they know and expect the ignorant person to take that as dogma? Or, does the knowing person teach the ignorant one how they learned all that they have and then leave it up to the ignorant person to seek out their unique truth? The latter option has more potential to fuel a progressive society that encourages the open questioning of ideas not for the sake of proving someone wrong, but rather to promote a deeper understanding of ones own beliefs. This is very much akin to the Socratic method.
From the reasoning above, I propose the ideal system of education to be both accessible to everyone and also crafted to instill the ability to establish personal principles and better understand certain preexisting societal values. In this model society, people are encouraged to become well-rounded not in an effort to stretch themselves too thin, but in an attempt to find what they truly love (a place where they naturally excel). In a contrasting society where people are educated for the sole purpose of staffing the best trades, they miss the crucial in-between step where people have the opportunity to discover what that trade should be (aside from what may be projected on them from society) in order to best contribute to their diverse and vibrant society. What are you trying to advance through your society and, by extension, your education system? Should people be selected based on their qualifications or in an effort to have greater representation? In this model society, representation comes before qualifications. Let everyone be represented in academic institutions and have access to the same opportunities to, as Allan Bloom would say, become elite. Then, and only then, can the question of whether someone is qualified be considered a determining factor.
Although Skinner, Buck, and Jacobson cover diverse topics, they are all connected through the strain between public health and fundamental rights. Through these cases, the Court defines where fundamental rights must be sacrificed for public health based on the duty to the State, scientific benefit to the individual and public, and equal protection of the law. 
Jacobson attests that individuals owe the sacrifice of personal liberties for public health to receive governmental protection. We are not prepared to hold that a minority enjoying the general protection afforded by an organized local government, may thus defy the will of its constituted authorities, acting in good faith for all (Jacobson, 72). Here, the Court treats society as a contractional relationship between individuals and the State. In regards to the greater good and general protection, an individual cannot have one without the other. The Court upholds mandatory vaccination because it applies to all and is believed to be a scientific societal good. 
Buck follows similar logic to apply duty to the government and societal good to those with limited mental capacity. It would be strange if it could not call upon those who already sap the strength of the State for these lesser sacrifices, often not felt to be such by those concerned, in order to prevent our being swamped with incompetence (Buck, 76). Again like in Jacobson, the sacrifice of personal freedom is viewed as a condition for the States support and protection. Sterilization of feebleminded people is essential for a competent population, and is seen as a lesser sacrifice than the imprisonment they would otherwise face. The scientific public and individual benefit and public duty necessitate the sacrifice of individual freedoms.
For Skinner, the Court uses equal protection and science to draw the line where public health cannot infringe on individual rights. We have not the slightest basis for inferring that the inheritability of criminal traits follows the neat legal distinctions which the law has marked between those two offenses (Skinner, 81). There is no public benefit in sterilization if the law only applies to certain crimes. If criminality were truly inheritable, the sterilization law would not have exemptions. Thus, the law is not truly enforced for the sake of public health but for individual punishment. This is what differentiates it from the previous two cases. Jacobson and Buck applied to everyone, vaccinations for all and sterilization of all feebleminded people, but Skinner made an arbitrary division between different crimes, violating the idea of equal protection and by extension, benefit to the public.
Taken together, these three cases build a test for public health impeding fundamental rights. Based on duty to the government and public, the law must be applied to everyone equally without arbitrary exemptions and be based on the perceived scientific public good. While these parameters appear valid, the limited scientific knowledge and biases at any given time period, as seen with Buck, create the system for needlessly stripping fundamental rights from certain groups. Essay to a Ruler
H420 - Political Philosophy
Dear Isoroku Yamamoto and the Japanese Government,
The year is 1941, and I write this letter to urge you to reconsider your military actions in Pearl Harbor. It has come to my attention that there have been numerous attempts at diplomacy as you have negotiated with the United States about the withdrawal of your forces from southern Indochina. I commend you for your patient negotiation up until now, but Ive also heard word that Franklin D. Roosevelt has received news that youre no longer being sincere in these negotiations by continuing to move towards Indochina and Thailand. So now, before you carry out your plan to prevent American interference, I implore you to heed my words of warning and those of brilliant political minds before me: Since there has been no direct injury, this attack doesnt satisfy the criteria for a just war. Also, if even after reading this, you see no other option, let me advise you on how to proceed with this last resort.
Firstly, I believe that this is a political conflict that must still be resolved through diplomatic means. The bombing of Pearl Harbor is bound to inspire a vengeful response from the United States, and I believe that this military action contradicts the requirements of a Just War in two ways. 1) In his Just War Theory, Thomas Aquinas quotes Augustine claiming that Just wars are normally defined as wars that avenge injuries, where the nation or city to be punished is one that has either neglected to make amends for what was done unjustly by its subjects or refused to restore what was lost through injury (Augustine in Aquinas). In this scenario, I do not see evidence of any physical injuries that would justify a war. Additionally, the United States is doing the opposite of whats outlined here: they are trying to negotiate and therefore have not neglected to make amends. 2) Now on the topic of insidious tactics in warfare, your plan also misses the mark. Out of the two forms of deception, these proposed actions fall under the firstimpermissible one. As Aquinas explains, the first form of deception is when [someone] is told something false or because a promise is not kept. This is always impermissible, and no one should deceive his enemies in this way. (Aquinas) Mr. Yamamoto, if you carry out your plans, this would break the promises of peace that you had made with the United States and therefore be considered insidious tactics. I ask you to consider the other side of the coin for a minute and imagine your feelings and those of your nation if such insidious tactics were prepared against you.
Now, as promised, if these two reasons to reconsider your plan arent satisfactory, let me provide my advice on how to best carry out this insidious and unjust sneak attack (as I fear it will come to be seen). If you find yourself with no alternate option, and if your attempts at conciliatory action are in fact exhausted, then listen closely. Attempting to only sink four battleships is far from a brilliant tactical scheme. To truly make the most out of this last resort of attack, you must listen again to the thinkers of the past. As Machiavelli said, If an injury has to be done to a man it should be so severe that his vengeance need not be feared (Machiavelli). Right here, Mr. Yamamoto, is where you made your gravest mistake (given your decision to abandon diplomacy). A man who believes he can conquer a moose (or any large animal, for that matter) would never be so foolish as to attack with a sewing needle. The same is true here. If you intend to take a stand against the United States sanctions and interference, then you must hit hard enough that they arent capable of retaliation. While I still think negotiation would be preferable to outright warfare, as Machiavelli says, A battle that you win cancels all your mistakes (Machiavelli). I hope this helps you with your future tactics.
In conclusion, let me remind you of the potential ramifications of these actions that repudiate the pillars of a just war. While your scheme to bomb Pearl Harbor may very well be successful in the short term, I fear for you on a strategic, moral, and political level. I predict that the United States, a previously neutral country, will become hungry to avenge this action. Without an official declaration of war, I foresee this as the irreversible impetus for the US involvement in World War II.
I truly hope you will consider my advice on how to proceed.
Best regards,
Luca Millard-Kish
Sources:
-https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isoroku_Yamamoto
-https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hull_note
-https://www3.nd.edu/~afreddos/summa-translation/Part%202-2/st2-2-ques40.pdf
-https://www.gutenberg.org/files/1232/1232-h/1232-h.htm
Economics
H420 - Political Philosophy
	Political philosophy is a field of study based on the formation and critique of systems of complex human relationships that create a government. At its core, philosophy of any brand is theoretical in nature. The relevance of political philosophy is derived from an attempt to put this theory into practice. For the purpose of this writing, a philosophy may be considered unworkable if it has no successful implementation in society. Next, we examine macroeconomic theory, a branch of economics that is concerned with the large-scale issues of the economy as a whole. These two subjects are inseparably intertwined in the fabric of current political systems. But, this begs the question: is the primary goal of the government economic success? This leads to a chicken or the egg scenario where we must ask whether the structure rooted in a chosen political philosophy informs the economic goal or whether the economic goal dictates the political structure best equipped to achieve that. 
	But what if the primary goal isnt even economic success? What if the goal of the union of political philosophy and macroeconomics is to devise a system in which economic success is but a mere byproduct, beneficial nonetheless, of the larger priority of collective happiness? To best go about finding this ideal scenario, we must envision a population devoid of structurea population in the state of nature. The nature of humans in this initial state is debated, but John Locke finds that its A state [...] of equality, wherein all the power and jurisdiction is reciprocal, no one having more than another [...] (Locke). This suggests that everyone is equal in their uniqueness yet unique despite their equality. This positive view of the state of nature is the ideal first building block of our desired system. Within this framework, everyone has the capacity to function and sustain just themselves, but heres where we can add a new perspective. By introducing the work of Adam Smith, the compounding effects of two great minds may just begin to reach the ideal of collective happiness. Smith suggests that When the whole force of the mind is directed to one particular object, as in consequence of the division of labour it must be, the mind is more likely to discover the easiest methods of attaining that object than when its attention is dissipated among a great variety of things (Smith). This improves Lockes notion that were all equal in the state of nature by allowing specialization that helps us not only sustain our individual selves but innovate as a collective, each contributing our strengths to a greater whole.
	So now, to present a theory of economics and politics that yields the best result, we turn to Finland. This is a country that has topped the worlds happiness rating for the sixth year runningtheyre obviously doing something right. In this system of a Social Democratic Party, all of the citizens share the resources. However, in contrast to the structure of socialisms more extreme cousin, communism, the resources are allocated by a democratically elected state. This ensures representation and appears to allow for a healthy balancing of individual and state power. On the spectrum of macroeconomic theory, this ideology falls somewhere in the middle between communism and complete capitalism. Similar to how the compounded impact of Locke and Smiths ideas created a more effective whole, the borrowing of workable concepts from both ends of the spectrum helps to regulate key aspects of macroeconomic theory to create this socialist democracy. As Adam Smith writes, Little else is requisite to carry a state to the highest degree of opulence from the lowest barbarism, but peace, easy taxes, and a tolerable administration of justice[...] (Smith). I agree with most of the ideas laid out here, but take challenge when it comes to taxes. I believe that every citizen's contribution (proportional to their income) helps to provide the social amenities that allow a socialist democracy like Finaland to be consistently voted as the happiest country. I have a hard time believing that people in America would be against the government securities afforded by a socialist flavor of economics. However, I think the first step to attaining this new goal of collective happiness (versus purely economic success) is to destigmatize socialism as a concept and distinguish it from strict communism, a system thats proved to be unworkable in practice.
-
The decision made regarding the Bowers v. Hardwick case violates our duty to the Constitution and its supremacy (Marbury v. Madison). Today the court has brutally attacked the very idea of equal protection which threatens the entire integrity and respect of this court. By viewing this case as an argument of designating a new fundamental liberty over whether the case falls into the fundamental liberty of privacy under equal protection in the 14th Amendment, my colleagues have put historical precedent over the Constitution itself which goes against the supremacy of the Constitution. 
The very question that we were presented with has been entirely misinterpreted. The justices in the majority summarize the case stating, The issue presented is whether the Federal Constitution confers a fundamental right upon homosexuals to engage in sodomy, and hence invalidates the laws of the many States that still make such conduct illegal, and have done so for a very long time (Bowers, 165). While this assertation is true, the court misinterprets the question entirely. We do not need to create an explicit right for homosexual sodomy. To approach the case in this manner completely sidelines the much simpler and obvious solution. Homosexuals have a fundamental right to engage in sodomy, not because the Constitution explicitly says so but because this is protected under the fundamental right to privacy.
The privacy of two consenting adults in their own bedrooms is tightly tied to the idea of fundamental privacy. As established in Eisenstadt v. Baird, If the right of privacy means anything, it is the right of the individual, married or single, to be free from unwarranted governmental intrusion into matters so fundamentally affecting a person as the decision whether to bear or beget a child (Eisenstadt, 102). Like decisions around procreation, personal intimacy is a matter that also fundamentally affects a person. For many, personal intimacy in the bedroom is one of the deepest ways to achieve emotional intimacy and fulfillment in a romantic and/or sexual relationship. The invasion of this privacy causes such deep psychological harm that the distinction between groups must be so thoroughly sound (such as sex between adults and minors) to be justified. Although homosexual sodomy does not have the ability to procreate as heterosexual vaginal sex does, both homosexuals and heterosexuals engage in sex for purposes other than reproduction, which can be seen through the use of birth control. Reproduction is not any ground to create this legal distinction and is especially unjustified when the governmental intrusion required to enforce the law is so severe. 
To deprive one group of privacy and sexual intimacy and not the other based on mere historical precedent would be ridiculous. The majority conclusion states that A different description of fundamental liberties appeared in Moore v. East Cleveland, where they are characterized as those liberties that are deeply rooted in this Nation's history and tradition. It is obvious to us that neither of these formulations would extend a fundamental right to homosexuals to engage in acts of consensual sodomy (Bowers, 166). Although historical precedent can be taken into account to aid the understanding of the complexity of an issue, as in Roe v. Wade, it should never be the main holding, especially if historical understandings of the issue have changed dramatically in recent history. Ideas established in the Constitution, such as due process and equal protection, should always triumph over state laws found in our history as these ideas are the building blocks of our democracy. 
At the end of the day, our duty as justices is to consult the Constitution in judging the validity of laws, as so clearly specified in Marbury v. Madison. The courts decision today defiles that duty as it ignores the 14th Amendment when it should so clearly be invoked. Fortunately, we all know that the court is fallible and mistakes can be corrected (as seen in Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka overturning Plessy v. Ferguson with the 14th Amendment). I can only hope that future generations will realize this egregious error and restore the integrity of this sacred institution.  Final Essay
H420 - Political Philosophy
EXISTENTIALISM
I - EXISTENTIALISM AND EDUCATION
	After touching on the gamut of philosophical thought that informs politics in different ways, existentialism when framed correctly, seems to have the most potential to create a desirable society. Existentialism, as a philosophy, puts existence before essence. This means that there is no intervention of a higher power that dictates ones essence immediately from birth. In the words of Sartre, [...] man first of all exists, encounters himself, surges up in the world  and defines himself afterwards (Sartre). This approach, when put into practice as a political system, would place great importance on educational systems. After all, its through education that one encounters themselves. Learning of the complexities and nuances of a world outside oneself is imperative to the definition of the self. How could one properly define themself if not for their environment, context, and relationships? Through an educational process of self-discoveryincluding education outside that of the strictly academic sensibility (an appreciation of art, culture, and the like)one has the capacity to defy their placement in the sociocultural hierarchy. Access to education is paramount in an existentialist society. Existentialism, often criticized for being a pessimistic approach, is actually quite the opposite, for no doctrine is more optimistic, the destiny of man is placed within himself (Sartre). Let one constantly question, learn, and then question what theyve learned (in a manner similar to that of Socrates) in order to continue their search for essencea component of human identity that is only possible through trial and error, ignorance and learning, and most importantly, self-discovery. The lifelong search for the essence must follow a fundamental notion of existence.
II - MISUSE AND REFRAMING
	However, as intimated in section I, an existentialist perspective rooted in the philosophy of Sartre and Nietzsche isnt infallible. In fact, in certain contexts,  the words of Nietzsche have been warped to be used as a philosophical justification for atrocities far beyond a simple accusation of pessimism. Since Nietzsches admittedly vehement writings dont strictly prescribe an ideal governmental system, they are particularly susceptible to the perversion of a twisted mind. One such example is the notion of the Ubermensch. Nietzsche claims that one of Ubermensch status is guided by some higher morality (often dictated from within the self). However, this very concept has been reframed as permission for violence and dominance. For example, in Germany, under the Nazi Regime, Hitler felt empowered by the actionable message in Nietzsches writing. He contorted this concept of the Ubermensch (a theory intended to refer to individuals) and applied it broadly to all of Germany to create an Ubersociety (ethnonationalism) that aimed to systematically eradicate factions of the population that didnt satisfy certain arbitrary criteria.
	But, just as this philosophy has been misused as fodder for cataclysmic ends, it also has the potential to be reframed from a more positive perspective. At its core, the construction of an Ubermensch is quite existentialist in that it attributes morality (and by extension, essence) to the individual. If we consider the Ubermensch to not be a status for select members of society, but instead an embodiment of what were all striving to become (once weve married our existence to our essence), then we can redefine Ubermensch to represent one who has encounter[ed] himself, surge[d] up in the world  and define[d] himself (Sartre). The Ubermensch can now be seen as someone who is living authentically and specifically as determined by their process of self-discovery (fueled by education and cultural literacy). I emphasize specifically here because the definition of Ubermensch for one person may differ from that of another. In the words of Nietzsche, Those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who could not hear the music (Nietzsche). If we cant understand or appreciate the unique journeys of those around us, then yes, their dancing is bound to appear insane because we dont realize that their music is in fact different from ours.
And again, to redefine certain pillars of Nietzsches work, we turn to the idea of nihilism. Since existentialism rejects all religiously prescribed morals, it has been accused of bruiting a message of nihilism and meaninglessness. However, this too can be reframed as an abundance of freedom (occasionally terrifying, but abundant nonetheless). With this carte blanche attitude, its crucial that we build from a Lockean perspective of the state of nature A state [...] of equality, wherein all the power and jurisdiction is reciprocal, no one having more than another [...] (Locke). Now, rather than Ubermensch symbolizing power and domination that only some can reach, we can view it as a goal and a malleable term that exemplifies the journey that were all on in striving to ascertain our essencea unique definition of Ubermensch for each person, but not a unique journey in and of itself.
III - THE IMMENSE RESPONSIBILITY AND FREEDOM OF BEING
	Now, in conclusion, this writing begs the question: What will we do with this abundantly free state of being? Where are the limits of our personal moralities and how do they intersect with one another while retaining some semblance of their initial authenticity? If we disregard a higher or divine sense of morality in service to our individuality, then whenever we make a decision and commit to something, were not just deciding for ourselves but influencing the course of events for all of mankind. As Satre says, In such a moment a man cannot escape from the sense of complete and profound responsibility (Sartre). The intertwined nature of our society is staggering when fully grappled withso much so that we may very well be rendered catatonic by the sheer weight of our existence. Overwhelming, immense, and filled with responsibility, yet we still must move forward. We still must continue living How? 
	Is it possible to exist without this anxiety? Is this the better way? Sartre claims that There are many, indeed, who show no such anxiety. But we affirm that they are merely disguising their anguish or are in flight from it (Sartre). This suggests that those who seem unscathed by the weight of the world are merely masters of illusion and escape artists. We all live under the same enormity of existence, yet we exist in enormously different ways. As a society, we have been able to give our senses a passport to everything superficial and we have contrived to retain our ignorancein order to enjoy life! (Nietzsche). To recall the concept of Ubermensch, this superficiality works in harmony with the first interpretation of the concept that applauds control and dominance. However, if we pursue our new reframing of Ubermensch as someone who is authentically themselves in a world thats constantly trying to make them otherwise, then this suggests that a true Ubermensch is not blind to the responsibility and freedom of existence, but embraces it (permitted to struggle and overcome along the way). 
 Nietzsche accuses us of existing in a state of strange simplification and falsification, but if we truly want to find our essence, then we must cast off the simplicity and learn to appreciate and thrive within the complexity (Nietzsche). This falsification comes from a belief that our destiny is within the control of some higher being. We view ourselves as subject to the vicissitude of life rather than in harmony with the ups and downs of the journey. Existentialism is optimistic in that it suggests our future is determinable by ourselves. 
Writing Prompt: Liberty and Consequences
H410 - Constitutional Law
What do these cases mean for the origins of the right to liberty?
While constitutional law may appear to be a convoluted web of logic supported by pseudoscientific fact and clarified by increasingly vague and subjective terms, its actually crucial for understanding the origins of our right to liberty. The text of the Constitution and Bill of Rights only explicitly states a few choice rights, but they also acknowledge the Enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people (Amendment IX). With this fundamental understanding, we can view Supreme Court cases as tools (in all their vague glory), to begin to define these unstated yet publicly accepted rights.
To begin to see how this unfolds, consider the case of Lochner v. New York. In this case, the New York Bakeshop Act put a limit on the number of hours that the bakers could work. As this case was decided, the court recognized that this decision hinged on this juxtaposition between The power of the State to legislate or the right of the individual to liberty of person and freedom of contract (Locher v. New York, 36). The case was found to violate the 14th Amendment, and thus secured the right to liberty. In a second example, the case of Myers v. State of Nebraska debated the constitutionality of a Nebraska law that prohibited the teaching of any language other than English. While this law was founded primarily on post-WW1 fear, the court declared that it violated the liberty protected by the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment and that Mere knowledge of the German language cannot reasonably be regarded as harmful (Meyer v. State of Nebraska, 51). This decision established, among other rights, the right of parents to control their childs upbringing. Lastly, similarly to the educational focus of Meyer, the case of Pierce v. Society of Sisters challenged the Compulsory (public) Education Act of 1922. Building off of the previous Meyer doctrine, the court found this act unconstitutional under the 14th Amendment, and further stated that the fundamental theory of liberty in the union excludes any general power of the State to standardize its children by forcing them to accept instruction from public teachers only (Pierce v. Society of Sister, 56). Its the parents right to educate their children how they see fit in order to prepare them for their individual futures.
In conclusion, we can see that these three cases, although not codified into the Constitution, successfully build definitions of the universally accepted yet undocumented liberties that we possess. The court found that as long as there is no rational basis to exercise police power or restrict these liberties in any way, then they would remain unchallenged and become accepted as Common Law.
Writing Prompt: Liberty and the State
H410 - Constitutional Law
Discuss the idea of public health versus fundamental rights. 
While fundamental rights can and should, on occasion, be restricted in service to public health, the courts rulings of what constitutes public health in the cases Jacobson v. Massachusetts, Buck v. Bell, and Skinner v. Oklahoma are inconsistent and unjustly discriminatory. 
We can agree that citizens have fundamental rights that may not be directly stated in the Constitution, as acknowledged by the ninth amendment. These rights remain untouched by federal law unless theyre in some way posing a threat to public health. But what constitutes a threat to the public? The court errored in the consistency of its decisions regarding public health.
Well begin with Jacobson, a ruling that seems reasonable on the grounds of public health. This is a case concerning mandatory vaccination. In the decision to uphold the states power, the court argued that persons and property are subjected to all kinds of restraints and burdens, in order to secure the general comfort, health, and prosperity of the State [...] (Jacobson). This statement holds true when its referring to the scientifically proven protection against a contagious disease for the public health of society. Its clear cut: if youre vaccinated, you wont contribute to the spread of an illness that threatens the general health of the State.
In contrast to Jacobson, a case directly linked to public health, well now examine the decisions of Buck v. Bell and Skinner v. Oklahoma. In Buck, the court attempted to mangle the definition of public health such that it could be used to justify the forced sterilization of people, specifically women, whom they found to be socially injurious. The court claimed that its in the worlds best interest to not have to wait to execute degenerate offspring for crime or to let them starve for their imbecility, but rather through the act of sterilization, society can prevent those who are manifestly unfit from continuing their kind (Buck). However, if this definition of public health held any ground, then the following case of Skinner v. Oklahoma, concerning the sexual sterilization of a man, should have been similarly decided. Are criminals not equally socially injurious if not more than those considered feeble-minded? They arguably cause more explicit damage to society through their actions. But, the court instead argued that [they] are dealing here with legislation which involves one of the basic civil rights of man and that marriage and procreation are fundamental to the very existence and survival of the race (Skinner). Was this not the case for Carrie Buck, a woman?
This is where the courts definition of public health falls apart. If the decisions of Buck and Skinner were truly concerned with public health, as earlier defined by Jacobson, then their rulings would be more consistent with each other and therefore avoid any speculation of discrimination or unequal treatment, gender-based or otherwise.
In conclusion, the decision in Jacobson was a matter of public health and a reasonable exercise of police power. The decisions in Buck and Skinner, however, cant be justified under the claim of public health and are therefore in direct violation of fundamental rights.
Raskolnikov
Is there such a thing as crime or not? This has been the topic of the century. Uncovering the nature of crime is a difficult task as it dives into human psychology more deeply than any single man can dive. That is, this fact has now caused a debate to arise in the legal community regarding what causes crime, and if there is such a thing as crime or not. In this context, crime can be defined as an unsanctioned act committed against a legal, religious, or social institution of sorts. In response to the ongoing debate regarding the nature of crime, it has come to my attention that a certain socialist belief is making itself popular, being that crime is a protest against the abnormal structure of society. Even though this may seem like a clever solution to such a complex question, it isnt. Crime has existed since humanities creation, before a structure of society was even created. Therefore crime cannot be a response to the structure of society. In fact, crime has almost nothing to do with society at all and everything to do with the much more complex realm of human psychology and natural law.
Let us begin with what the laws of nature dictate. Ordinary individuals are conservative people by nature, well-behaved, who live in obedience, like being obedient, and have an obligation to be obedient because that is their destiny (286). Obedient individuals are those who follow both the written and unwritten laws of legal, religious, and social institutions. As is expected, these individuals do not have the right to overstep either psychological and legal boundaries because of this obligation, and must live abiding by the laws of nature in order to prevent a disruption in the natural balance.
If this is truly the case, then why does crime exist? In some individuals, a certain playfulness of nature causes them to imagine they arent ordinary, but rather superior to everyone else. It is this mirage of superiority, a natural thought that many unconsciously possess, that causes individuals to, for example, take the lives of others. To someone who possesses such a psychological illness, murder may all of a sudden seem reasonable; I am better than you, therefore I have the right to kill you. Crime is always accompanied by illness. However, criminals never get very far because it is impossible to avoid destiny. Just as mirages are not real, the image of superiority is false, causing an imbalance in the laws of nature: an individual overstepping the destiny they were born with. One might not even bother punishing such a criminal because a correction to rebalance nature is severe enough. [Criminals] will beat themselves up because they are so well behaved. Some will provide this service to others, some will do it themselves (288). This is the beauty of the balance of nature.
Almost every crime can be explained using this psychology. However, an exception can be observed, and the only exception for that matter. From the dawn of humanity, the lawgivers and trailblazers, beginning with the ancients, continuing with Lycurus, the Solons, Mohammeds, Napoleans, and so forth, each and every one of them, were criminals, just by virtue of the fact that in propagating new laws, they were at the same time destroying the old laws viewed as sacred by society and handed down by their fathers (285). However, not a single one of these men experienced the natural punishment for their crimes. In fact, [...] they didnt hesitate even to shed blood, if that blood (sometimes completely innocent and valiantly shed in defense of the old laws) would help them. (285). The only explanation for such a large exception is that it is no exception at all, but rather a whole new law, being that those extraordinary individuals who possess the gift or talent of uttering some new word in their milieu, have not only the right, but the obligation to permit his conscience to overstep various obstacles, and only in the case that the execution of his idea (sometimes, perhaps, one that would benefit all mankind) requires it (285-286). These gifted individuals can be thought of as extraordinary individuals who are destined to propel humanity forward, compared to ordinary individuals who exist solely for the purpose of reproducing the species (286). One can imagine that in nature there are not in fact two categories, but infinite (because defined categories hardly exist in nature). Therefore, I conclude that everyone, not only the great people, but even those who stand out just slightly from the everyday rut, that is, those who are even marginally capable of uttering some new word, must, by their nature, necessarily be criminals (286) and in my opinion, they are even obligated to act accordingly to benefit humanity.
	-RR
Porfiry
Dear Sir,
I must begin by saying that your bold little article has piqued my interest in the most unique of ways. Sir, if I may, you indeed examine crime and the psychological state of the criminal throughout the crime as the title of your article suggests. However, dear sir, there appears to be just the slightest hint of a rather unique opinion behind your words. Indeed, ...you merely touch on by implication, that there exist in the world certain people, as it were, who are able that is, not that theyre able,  but who have every right to commit any kind of outrages and crimes, and that the laws do not apply to them (284). If I may, dear sir, to my knowledge you claim that there are two distinct categories of men: ordinary and extraordinary. You go on to elaborate that these so-called ordinary individuals are obedient and do not have the right to overstep the common law. This is a rather logical observation, however, good sir, you clarify that the extraordinary individuals have the ability to overstep not only legal but mental boundaries (284). 
If I may, dear sir, I say that this idea is absurd! Although, I must say, that your concept of all the worlds finest men being criminals is rather astonishingly accurate. However, you must realize by now that these so-called categories of yours are not new, in fact it all resembles everything [the educated have] read and heard a thousand times before (289). Furthermore, the thought that some of these extraordinary individuals may even avoid execution for their crimes and rather triumph during their lifetime and begin executing others (who they see as obstacles) is a rather terrifying one (287). This is a dangerous game youre playing, young sir (I assume you are quite young due to the boldness and arrogance of your ideas). What if you are wrong? If these categories are just a figure of the imagination and an individual goes about their life constantly wondering whether they are extraordinary or not, this could be the cause, just say, for example, the individual to commit, lets say, the murder of a pawnbroker just for the sake of proving to himself that he is extraordinary.
This isnt the only fault I see in this theory, however. Sir, if I may just question [...] how does one distinguish the extraordinary people from the ordinary ones? [...] I have in mind that greater accuracy is needed, so to speak, more external distinctions. [...] Because, youll agree, if some confusion results and one of the ordinary category imagine that he belongs to the other one, and begins to eliminate all obstacles, as you expressed it so fortuitously, well then that would be awful (287). In my opinion, and likely the opinion of several other readers of your article, so to speak, The sanctioning of bloodshed as a matter of conscience [...] [is] more terrible than an official or legal sanction to shed blood (288).
 One final thought, [...] when you were composing your little articlecould it possibly be the case [...] that you might also have considered yourself [...] to be an extraordinary man uttering some new word [...] (291). Because if that is truly the case, one could argue your article seems more like a proud and arrogant rant to tend to your insecurities and shadow your humiliation at the thought that you might just be like everyone else.
Respectfully,
	Porfiry Petrovich
Sarah Epelbaum
Brian Crawford
What is the Good Life?
16 September 2022
My Escape To Berlin
Mother always warned about sleeping across your own reflection, but when it was finally time to position the attic mirror  stained an earthy brown and cracked at the edges  I dragged it across the floor and centered it perfectly between the legs of my bed. The clock blinked 12 :  37 and sitting up, the smell of purple haze and blue twilight reflected off dusty blinds onto my desk and through the glimmer of swirling metal in front of me. A finger pierced the surface sending shock waves in all directions across the spinning universe, sucking the rest of my hand, then my arm and body into the abyss. Catching my last breath I dove in. 
Falling forward I stumble onto an unfamiliar sidewalk, catching myself before I could collapse onto the dark road beneath my eyes. Above me, the great black sky is decorated with an ecosystem of glowing, flickering and fading signs, an endless echoing river of lights. I feel my heels clicking on the ground and brushing my hands on my thighs reveals the rough texture of light washed flared jeans and a thick leather jacket. Like deja vu, I see TERRASSEN AM ZOO in big yellow letters on the imposing grayish green building in front of me. Along the wall, groups of young people sulking, staring, shivering, some exhaling a thin sliver of smoke from their lips into the cold night. Suddenly I felt my body yearning for the soft bed which seemed to pull me deeper and deeper inside every night until I fell asleep. Was I still the same girl who every day after school imagined spontaneously escaping to the big city but inevitably went straight home to obey mothers orders?
 
Ruth!
I turned around to face the never ending road, and a group of teenagers came running towards me dressed in the familiar style of jean jackets and boots, dodging the cars skillfully as if there was a predetermined path for them in space-time. 
We dont have time, we have to go NOW, exclaimed one of the girls under her breath, grabbing my hand and pulling me towards the golden light of the entrance. 
As we were about to cross the rusty barrier I stopped her to ask for her name.
What do you mean, Im Lizzie of course, are you high or something?
Oh and dont forget to bring this,she hands me a ticket made of thick green paper, now come on!
Before I could read it, Im pulled further and stumble into the building which I quickly realized was a train station by the fluorescent buzz, yellow sheen on the tiled floor, layers of graffiti and worn down booths plastered with intricate maps and advertisements. Awkwardly stuffing the paper deep into my front pocket, I notice people, young and old, leaning against the walls, sitting on staircases seemingly leading to nowhere, and huddling together in the thin halls which twist haphazardly. A sea of metal, glass, and concrete opens up before me and even the stink of old pipes and piss cant take away from the sweet taste of total freedom, from my family, from jealousy and delusion, from the panopticon of thought, and the endless hum of suburbia. 
We run together now, pulling each other towards the descending steps to the rows of fading yellow trains. For a moment we all stop, a cool night breeze mixed imperceptibly with the rush of air from the zooming trains. We stood there looking up at the tangled pipes, like intricately woven cloth on a kitchen table. Meeting each other's eyes, we knew we had to carry on. 
The group turned sharply to a back door, revealing a maze of hallways and steps, painted dark blue or black and splattered with sections of purple graffiti and cracks revealing raw concrete. As we went deeper the halls became more crowded until our group could only pass by squeezing through one by one. A sign displayed the word Toilette above a tall door.
Wait here well be back, Lizzie said, turning away.
WAIITT, I practically screamed, Where are you going, I cant do this without you, I blurted out.
You cant  holding my hand in hers and with tears in her eyes, I- youll have to go on your own, remember the ticket? And just like that she swiftly disappeared toward the door.
Someone whispered in my ear, just go on, but when I turned people were rushing past just as before. Those who were stepping out of the door had the familiar gloss over their eyes, some stumbled and fell to the side of the hall. 
Horrified, I ran and ran down hundreds of steps until the walls became thinner and the paint had worn off to merely a pile of dust on the floor. A set of double doors stood before me, the faint sound of people cheering and a booming bass in the background. In a trance, I opened the door and showed my crumpled ticket to the man beside me. Carefully flattening it out, I see at the top:
DAVID BOWIE 77 HEROES
Inside, life moved slowly, strobe lights flickered sporadically across the arena, and the muffled sounds of before drowned out my endless thoughts. My vision blurred into a kaleidoscope of color, mirroring the dance of light and shadow on my desk at dawn. This warm feeling filled me as I glanced towards the shining stage, locking eyes with a boy at the edge of the railing. Without losing this connection, we glide towards each other and his hand travels smoothly from my arm to my shoulder and onto my back.
Remember me? 
Were yo 
Shhh he interrupted me by placing his index finger on my lips.
Please, I must leave this world, this quagmire of endless pleasure and suffering
What do you mean, isnt this what you have always dreamed of?
Is it real?
How do you define real?
Staring into his eyes once more I notice his gaze changes as a reaction to my own change in expression. 
I lean forward to whisper thank you into his ear. Leaving the arena, I repress the urge to look back, a single tear streaming down my face. 
After a single left turn from the exit I came upon the faded sign, this time there was no one in sight. Cautiously I enter this bright room to find Lizzie calmly putting on burgundy lipstick in front of a mirror. 
Lizzie! I cried, collapsing into her arms.
With her ring finger she rubs the top of her lipstick and smudges the color across my lips.
There you go, much better, she smiles, you know it's time...
Staring into the mirror at the dark spot on my lips I shut my eyes, imagining my room just as I had left it. 
Now I lay awake, and all I see is a faint stain of burgundy lipstick on my mirror. 

Opinion of the Court
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press. 
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

No. 201199

STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE (HARVARD CORPORATION)
ON WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT
[January 24, 2023]
Ms. CHIEF JUSTICE DORESWAMY and Mr. JUSTICE FORSYTHE delivered the opinion of the Court.
I
A
     Affirmative Action policies are designed to create equitable access to educational and employment opportunities to marginalized communities, such as racial minorities. The policy originated with a profound substantial interest in reversing the detrimental effects of racebased discrimination in this countrys history. In the context of college admissions, universities attempt to engineer a diverse class of students in order to reap the educational benefits. However, the implementation of affirmative action policies has been subject to controversy over negative effects on nonminority racial groups, and most recently AsianAmericans. Furthermore Title VI of the Civil Rights Act places all federally funded programs (e.g. private and public universities) to be held liable under the  Equal Protection Clause, and thus strict scrutiny. We note that both the concepts of discrimination and equal protection are subjective: as best proclaimed by Mr. Justice Holmes [a] word is not a crystal, transparent and unchanged, it is the skin of a living thought and may vary greatly in color and content according to the circumstances and the time in which it is used. Towne v. Eisner, 245 U. S. 418, 425 (1918). 
    Affirmative action was first coined in President Kennedys Executive Order 10925 (1961) requiring government contractors to take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, creed, color, or national origin. While the origin is almost contradictory to its current usage, the purpose remains constant and this nations commitment to establishing a society free of discrimination has only grown. In 1978, the Court decided on University of California Regents v. Bakke, 438 U.S. 265, establishing the first standard for evaluating a colleges affirmative action admissions policy. The Court acknowledged the State and colleges legitimate interest in the educational benefits of a diverse class, yet ruled against imposing any specific or hard racial quotas. This ruling on allowing the narrowly tailored usage of race was further affirmed in Grutter v. Bollinger, 539 U.S. 306 (2003).
   Before us now is a challenge to Harvards admission policy as a violation of the Grutter, Bakke, standard and thus Title VI and the 14th amendment. Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. asks us to rule Harvards usage of race as unconstitutional and in violation of the established usage of race due to discrimination against AsianAmerican applicants. Paradoxically, the Bakke precedent was modeled with Harvard Colleges admission process as the gold standard for the appropriate usage of race. On the other side, Harvard maintains that their admissions policy has not evolved since the precedent was established, and is thus in compliance with the narrowly tailored requirement and seeks to uphold their policy. Ibid. Neither the petitioner nor the respondent has argued for the overturning of Grutter or Bakke, but rather a thorough examination of whether the policy complies with or violates the precedent.
II
A
   For nearly 50 years, Harvard Colleges admissions program has stood as the gold standard for racebased admissions. In an appendix to his binding opinion in Bakke, JUSTICE POWELL detailed the merits of Harvards process. He made specific note of the fact that Harvard does not set strict quotas, while nonetheless paying attention to the racial makeup of the admitted class to ensure that they are manifesting their valid interest in a diverse student body.
In Harvard College admissions the Committee has not set targetquotas for the number of blacks, or of musicians, football players, physicists or Californians to be admitted in a given year. At the same time the Committee is aware that if Harvard College is to provide a truly heterogen(e)ous environment that reflects the rich diversity of the United States, it cannot be provided without some attention to numbers. (App. to Brief for Columbia University, Harvard University, Stanford University, and the University of Pennsylvania, as Amici Curiae 2-3. Bakke 317). 
POWELL makes it clear that, contrary to the argument presented by SFFA, the consultation of racial statistics does not imply a quota. Indeed, such consideration may be necessary to ensure that the diversity interest is met. This standard justifies the reports, in which the admissions committee monitors the racial makeup of their incoming class to achieve their ideal racial composition[1]. As Harvard concurs that the majority of their applicants are highly qualified, their usage of race is most likely a plus factor in which admissions officers distribute tips to the applicants with a desirable racial identity (Bakke, SFFA Brief). 
   In their briefing and argument, SFFA makes the assertion that Harvard is in violation of the acceptable mechanisms established in Bakke and then refined in Grutter, which is clearly disproved by the fact that the standard was created to be modeled after Harvards process, and there is no evidence presented that Harvards process has evolved. Therefore, we conclude that Harvard is in compliance with that precedent. 
B
  However, the intent behind the narrowly tailored test established was to eliminate the usage of strict quotas, such as the Medical School of the University of California at Davis reservation of 16 out of 100 seats for students of a racial minority group. Ibid. Despite JUSTICE POWELLs insistence that Harvards policy is not the functional equivalent of the quota but rather a flexible admissions system, the figures provided by SFFA show negligible variance in the percentages[2] of admitted students by race inconsistent with a flexible and nonmechanical use of race (Fig 2 SFFA Brief). The Court in Grutter held that a given schools interest is not simply to assure within its student body some specified percentage of a particular group merely because of its race or ethnic origin (Bakke 307). 
   If it looks like a quota, and quacks like a quota, but calls itself narrowly tailored, is it constitutional? Under the standard set in Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U.S. 356 (1886), disparate impact is discrimination, subject to the strictures of the Equal Protection Clause, regardless of discriminatory intent. We agree. As such, even though Harvard has followed the narrowly tailored standard to the best of their abilities, they are observed to be violating the intent, and thus the central holding of Bakke. Ibid.
C
  In their briefs and in oral arguments, both SFFA and Harvard affirmed that there had been no substantive changes to Harvard Colleges admissions program in the 22 years since Grutter was decided; nor indeed was any evidence presented that indicates that Harvard has substantively altered their admissions program since Bakke highlighted it as a template for how to use race in admissions.
If Harvard College, held by JUSTICE POWELL to be the shining example of a constitutionally viable raceconscious admissions program, is unable to clearly comply with the framework set out in Bakke, despite being in full compliance with the proposed methods of action, we are constrained to conclude that such a framework is fundamentally unworkable. Bakke and Grutter must be overturned. 
III
A
 Having found the Bakke framework unworkable, we must now consider a new path forward.
     The Court has long upheld the use of racial quotas in hiring under Title VII as a constitutionally permissible use of race to further an interest in remedying past harm. In Albemarle Paper Co. v Moody, 422 U.S. 405 (1975), the Court ordered a company that had, despite no clear discriminatory intent, violated Title VII by underhiring and underpromoting minority applicants relative to nonminority ones based on a flawed general ability testing protocol. The Court held that the testing criteria used by Albemarle, while not facially discriminatory, did systematically underrate minority applicants and was therefore in violation of Title VII. As a remedy, the court required Albemarle to provide back pay for all minority employees deemed to have been harmed from the discriminatory promotion policy, and left the door open for a lower court to prescribe further remedial action.
  In Griggs v. Duke Power Co., 401 U.S. 424 (1970), the Court determined that the primary aim of Title VII was to achieve equality of employment opportunities and remove barriers that have operated in the past to favor an identifiable group of white employees over other employees (Griggs 430). 
   Finally, in a concurring opinion in Ricci v. DeStefano, 557 U.S. 557 (2009), a case dealing with race-based discrimination claims under Title VII, JUSTICE SCALIA wrote that:
Whether or not Title VIIs disparate-treatment provisions forbid remedial race-based actions when a disparate-impact violation would not otherwise resultthe question resolved by the Court todayit is clear that Title VII not only permits but affirmatively requires such actions when a disparate-impact violation would otherwise result. Ibid.
According to Scalia, the Courts holding in Ricci clearly affirmed Title VIIs remedial interest framework as constitutional, and required the use of affirmative action to ensure that interest is fulfilled.
B
   The substantive differences between the text of Title VI and Title VII are small. Title VII deals with employment, while Title VI deals with federally-funded programs generally, but in the context of college admissions these differences are nearly insignificant. In both cases, the question is to what degree and in what manner can applicants be judged based on race. Under both, diversity is seen as a compelling interest that justifies the use of race in admissions. And, given that both were passed at the same time as part of the same law, it is reasonable to assume that the legislative intent behind both is substantively similar; so one might assume that this Court has found similar protections in both. But under Title VII, remedial intent, both on a societal level and as a remedy for harm caused by specific discriminatory practices, is also considered a valid interest; and courts have seen fit in the past to enforce/permit the enforcement of a remedial interest via affirmative action programs. No such judicial precedent exists for Title VI.
   Such variance in the jurisprudences of Title VI and Title VII stems from one decision in particular: Bakke. Indeed, JUSTICES BRENNAN, MARSHALL, BLACKMUN, and WHITE sought in their opinion to extend the Title VII remedial interest framework to the purview of Title VI; this was rejected by JUSTICE POWELL in his majority opinion. POWELL held that remedial intent was a fundamentally unworkable interest because it requires private entities such as Harvard to make subjective judgements about the relative merits of various racial and ethnic groups claims to historical discrimination and disfavor; in his view, this would be impermissible without judicial or legislative intervention. 
   However, as the minority wrote, [t]he requirement of a judicial determination of a constitutional or statutory violation as a predicate for race-conscious remedial actions would be self-defeating  Judicial intervention is a last resort to achieve cessation of illegal conduct or the remedying of its effects rather than a prerequisite to action. Bakke. A host of Title VII cases support this assertion: McDaniel v. Barresi, supra; Schlesinger v Ballard, 419 U.S. 498 (1975); Califano v Webster, 430 U.S. 313 (1977); Kahn v. Shevin, 416 U.S. 351 (1974); Katzenbach v. Morgan, 384 U.S. 641 (1966). In each, race-conscious remedial actions have been upheld as constitutional without the need for prior judicial review. POWELL improperly disregarded that precedent in declining to extend Title VII jurisprudence to Title VI; today, we reverse that error. 
   We see no reason why the mechanisms of action understood to be permitted by Title VII to remedy systemic and historical harm should not be extended to Title VI; we agree with the primary dissent in Bakke that [n]othing whatever in the legislative history of either the Fourteenth Amendment or the Civil Rights Acts even remotely suggests that the States are foreclosed from furthering the fundamental purpose of equal opportunity to which the Amendment and those Acts are addressed. Bakke, 438 (Brennan, White, Marshall, and Blackmun, JJ., concurring in part). With that understanding of the judicial precedent underlying Titles VI and VII, we now move to a discussion of the proper use of race under Title VI.
IV
A
   In this case, the explicit purpose of the usage of race in college admissions is to create a diverse class for educational benefits, as race is an indicator of different life experiences for individuals, while not compromising on the high quality of applicants to the highly competitive school in question. Harvard maintains that their applicant pool is oversaturated with Asian American applicants, partially due to cultural factors, comprising approximately eighty per cent, and this accounts for the disproportionality in the demographics of their admitted class. To eliminate the consideration of race in college admissions would lead to classes with a tremendous lack of racial diversity. However, we deny that the established interest of the educational benefits of diversity is solely compelling enough to justify the gray area of racial balancing. 
    This justification is an exceedingly ridiculous one almost akin to giving a child a piece of cake and telling them to eat it off the floor. If Harvard wants cake, i.e. diversity among their students, they should eat it off a plate with dignity, rather than attempting to cloak remedial intent through a definition of diversity that only encompasses race. If the rationale behind the process was to achieve a highly diverse student body, other factors such as socioeconomic status, gender, neighborhood, family structure, ability, creed etc. should be awarded significant consideration. However, no other category constituting diversity comes close to being half as significant as race in the Harvard application process. We concur with SFFAs assertion that Harvards fascination with race indicates substantial external motivation, likely remedial intent. 
   We recognize that substantial progress has been made in reversing the negative effects of racial discrimination, which is the very basis of the arguments of both sides in this case, however we would be wholly mistaken to assert that racial discrimination has been remedied or eradicated from our society. With the integration of race into law, and its ever presence in American society, it is unclear if we will ever be able to fully separate ourselves from this social construct responsible for the most unfortunate aspects of our history. 
    While SFFA asserts that Harvards usage of race results in discrimination against a minority group that the very purpose of such a policy should be designed to prevent, they do not present a workable alternative for the usage of race in the college admissions process, and do not argue for the removal of race in the college application process. We can be confident then that both parties recognize the dangers of color blindness becoming a  myopia which masks the reality that many "created equal" have been treated within our lifetimes as inferior both by the law and by their fellow citizens Ibid.
   We move forward to establish a new workable standard for the usage of race in college admissions, using remedial interest as the justification. Race in college admissions can be used in favoring racial minority groups that have been subject to historical discrimination as both a recognition of the barriers that they may have overcome as a result of their race and an attempt to make higher education, specifically historically elitist and exclusive institutions, more accessible. Race may not be used to contribute negatively to an application, this would eliminate practices such as Havards usage of personal points which clearly illustrates a correlation between Asian American applicants and low personality scores. There is no need for the usage of race to be cloaked, and logically it follows that the same positive consideration would be awarded to any applicant who had to overcome a significant obstacle in their adolescence (e.g. death of a close family member, socioeconomic status, unstable living situation). 
    It does not follow under Harvards purview to meticulously engineer their subjectively determined definition of a diverse class, especially when one considers the universitys investment into reserving seats for recruited athletes, legacies, and  children of major donors. Harvard should solely be concerned with making their admissions process as equitable as possible. The likely impact of this is that the amount of Asian Americans admitted to institutions such as Harvard will increase as the general applicant pool of Asian Americans has high academic and extracurricular qualifications[3].
B
   The language of the 14th Amendment can be described no less than majestic in its sweep: Bakke, 438.
   No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
   Ever since its ratification, the 14th Amendment has been subject to two vastly different interpretations, a raceconscious and raceblind one. One cannot argue that the intent of the amendment was not for remedial interests in an attempt to provide clear guidelines for a new structure of law and society without perpetuating discrimination. Theoretically, the abolishment of race as a societal construct and the control it holds over the livelihoods of persons would be ideal, but to adopt a raceblind interpretation would be foolish at best. 
     In her majority opinion delivered on Grutter, JUSTICE OCONNOR expressed her desire that 25 years from now, the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary to further the interest approved today (Grutter 343). While one can share her optimism, the inescapability of our history and continuing presence of racism and bias has justified the indefinite usage of race in college admissions.   We will not establish a termination date for affirmative action policies, and to do so would be egregiously pretentious as to assume that discrimination in this country might someday be completely righted. 
    In a similar vein, we will not act in accordance with a race-blind  14th Amendment, as it does not serve the reality which we abide in and has never been adopted by this Court as the proper meaning of the Equal Protection Clause (Bakke, 355).
   We affirm the present necessity of affirmative action policies and recognize the concerns presented by SFFA surrounding the unintended yet proven negative effects on Asian American applicants. We do not establish remedial measures as an attempt to compare the oppression of minority and disadvantaged groups, nor do we expect colleges to make the highly subjective decisions of weighting the race of their applicants. Furthermore, we concur with  JUSTICE BRENNANS sentiment in Bakke that unlike discrimination against racial minorities, the use of racial preferences for remedial purposes does not inflict a pervasive injury upon individual whites in the sense that wherever they go or whatever they do there is a significant likelihood that they will be treated as second-class citizens because of their color (Bakke 375).
V
     In our overturning of University of California Regents v. Bakke and Grutter v. Bollinger, we reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit to establish Harvard Colleges current and past usage of race in college admissions does not comply with Title VI and Equal Protection. It is therefore our duty to establish the new standard, in which remedial intent feeds a usage of race that places more attention on the applications of those from a racial minority or another disadvantaged group, to account for the unique hardships they might have endured. The case is remanded to the district court with instruction.
It is so ordered.
          Opinion of Mr.  JUSTICE ISERMAN , concurring in part, dissenting in part.
After reviewing the case and all evidence, and the arguments that were given, I have to be against Harvard and affirmative action. The system of affirmative action and race based admissions has proven itself too easy to abuse. This could violate the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment and the civil rights act. The first of which states No state shall  deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of its laws. The latter states No person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.. 
With Harvard getting federal financial assistance, they should be held to this standard. Harvard said their admissions help promote diversity, while in fact discriminating against Asian Americans. With the current events, race based admissions matter, due to the tumultuous climate of the situation were in. With the race based admissions in Harvard, it has developed into a problem. With Regents of the University of California v Bakke from 1978,  The University of California was using a quota with 16 out of their 100 slots for qualified minorities. 
Bakke had qualifications exceeding those who got the slots and was rejected since he was white. The quota system was ruled to have violated the Civil Rights act of 1964. This ties into Students For Fair Admissions v Harvard because as was mentioned in the oral arguments, 80 percent of Harvards admissions are from people of Asian origin, while only about 20 percent of the student body is of Asian origin, so they are most likely enforcing a quota, despite it encouraging diversity. Unless there is definitive proof of the quality of applications  being less than others, the only possibility is a quota being in place to prevent this. 
However with Fisher v. University of Texas, Texas law dictated that the university of texas would need to admit all high school seniors who were in the top 10 percent of their high school. However the top ten percent wasnt diverse, and Fisher, a white student, was not admitted. The court ruled in favor of Fisher and that race based admissions must be precisely tailored to serve a compelling governmental interest and that if thats not met, race shouldnt be considered. 
Another case on race based decisions is Yick Wo v Hopkins, where an 1880 San Francisco ordinance required permits for laundries in wooden buildings, and despite most of the laundries being operated by Chinese Americans, none were granted permits. This law was overturned because a law that is not inherently discriminatory, but is enforced in a discriminatory way is unconstitutional, because it violates the equal protection clause. This applies to admissions because even if the method of admissions used is impartial, but is applied with a discriminatory intent, it would be against the equal protection clause. 
Another example of potential discrimination in schools was brought up in San Antonio Independent School District v. Rodriguez, where the case of public school funding being from property taxes, and since minorities are often in poorer neighborhoods, their schools would get less funding. This case was ruled that the method of funding was not unconstitutional since The Equal Protection Clause does not require absolute equality or precisely equal advantages. (Rodriguez). 
This ties in since the cases should be based in some equality, even if its not equal. However when a vast majority of the denied applicants are of one race, its almost certain that the standards are nowhere near equal, hence theyre unconstitutional. And then with Grutter v. Bollinger, the case was determined that race could be used as a factor in college admissions, as long as it doesnt harm minority candidates. Harvard was used as a positive example for this situation, since at the time in 2003, they had a positive admissions system. 
However now Harvards admissions system has proven an undue burden on minorities. Since the diversity in the student body does not reflect the diversity in the applications, there has to be some sort of discrimination involved. Affirmative action has proven itself time and time again to be rife for abuse by colleges to filter out certain races. With this, there has to be some sort of method to make sure the admissions system is impartial and non discriminatory. There are some methods that might be used to bypass this requirement, however those methods need to still be constitutional under Yick Wo, since the use of admissions wasnt initially discriminatory, however the system of personal scores that was given in interviews is inherently discriminatory against Asian Americans, since they tend to score lower on it as a trend despite having a high academic score that would likely get them admitted if it wasnt for the interview. 
Because the personal score is dependent on the interviewer, just like the permits for laundries in San Francisco. With those the permits had to be given individually, and the permits werent given to any Chinese Americans, despite the majority of the laundries being run by them. This is similar to Harvard and the application process because a vast majority of the applicants are Asian American and have strong academic scores, yet theyre denied due to the opaque process of personal scores that are given to the interviewer. So this method of college admissions is unconstitutional due to the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment of the constitution.
   Opinion of JUSTICE OMENN, concurring in part and dissenting in part. 
   The parts of this decision that I concur with are important points that this Court should have recognized. However, the manner in which this Court has decided to remedy the previous errors of the Court is frankly, insane. I concur that as shown above, the admissions process used by Harvard systematically discriminates against asian applicants. Given how the Harvard plan bears the hallmarks of a narrowly tailored plan Grutter v. Bollinger, 539 U.S. 306 (2003) and yet clearly discriminates against a minority group, the decisions made in Grutter and Bakke should be overturned. Reversing Grutter and Bakke as well as acknowledging that the 14th Amendment has to be race-conscious as opposed to race blind in order to remedy disadvantages cast on minorities by past racial prejudice Regents of Univ. of California v. Bakke, 438 U.S. 265 (1978) are agreeable. As stated in Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, 347 U.S. 483 (1954), education is perhaps the most important function of state and local governments. This importance extends to the federal level as well, with the federal government giving Harvard tens of millions of dollars in grants and endowments. Private institutions such as Harvard are given large amounts of federal funding to give the highest quality education possible to its students.  The students who apply should not worry that their race will disadvantage them in the application process.
    What I disagree with in the majoritys opinion is their solution of how colleges can avoid discriminating against historically underrepresented groups. The majority here propose that we accept quotas as a part of title VI, and use them as a semi-permanent basis in college admissions. What the majority is doing here is creating the most egregious case of judicial lawmaking ever had in this court. While Bakkes unworkable opinion needs to be changed, re-writing a section of the civil rights act and overturning 40 years of precedent is too far. Institutions of higher education and jobs are not the same thing. What this decision is allowing is for any educational institution to outright discriminate against any group based on race using the justification of remedial interest 
    As this case is decided, it fails the five point checklist for the removal of Stare Decisis. As given in Dobbs v. Jackson Womens Health Organization, 517 U.S __ (2022) the five factor used when determining if Stare Decisis should be overturned are [t]he nature of the Courts error[,] [t]he quality of the reasoning[,] Workability[,]  [e]ffect on other areas of law[, and]  [r]eliance interests. 
    Firstly, there is the nature of the Courts error. The Court has erred by resorting to judicial intervention, a last resort to achieve cessation of illegal conduct or the remedying of its effects (Bakke.) Instead of letting the state and federal governments try to handle the issue of quotas in universities, this Court has raced ahead of them all and declared that yes, quotas are the new standard. To uproot decades of judicial and legal precedent only to dictate what the replacement would be in the same decision is a serious error.
  Secondly, there is the quality of reasoning in the decision, focusing mainly on the connection between title VII of the civil rights Act and title VI. The majority makes the case that because quota systems are applied under title VII, they should be under title VI as well. What the majority fails to mention, however, is that the federal government has signed laws and executive orders supporting the idea of quotas and affirmative action present in the workplace, yet has done no such thing in regards to public or private universities. The majority would close the distinction between title VII and VI of the civil rights act without any party remotely interested in such an action. 
   Thirdly, there is the workability of this decision. This Court would have remedial interest, a temporary interest by its nature, made the standard with only the confidence that somewhere down the line, a different Supreme Court will overturn the interest of remedial action. Decisions made in this Court are not meant to be temporary, they are meant to set precedent that is easy to follow and understand, to interpret the Constitution in a consistent manner. This decision has a solution as workable as the solution in Bakke, and as seen by this court, the Bakke solution is unworkable. If the solution found in Bakke is unworkable because it gives a vague standard of narrowly tailored, the decision by this court is even worse, it tells colleges to actively discriminate against various races based on perceived past hardships. The same problems encountered at Harvard now could be encountered just the same with this decision. If the Harvard admissions office decides that the past hardships of asians and asian americans was not that serious, those applicants could find themselves once again disadvantaged on a basis of race.
   Fourthly, the effects this decision would have on other areas of law needs to be considered. Title VI does not only apply to discriminatory practices in universities, but in any institution that receives federal funding. Racial quotas and discriminatory practices could be used not only in universities across the nation, but in healthcare services, social services, and other federally funded programs could all find themselves having to change whatever policies they had to incorporate the remedial interest present in righting historical disadvantages. This not only creates chaos as a variety of services across the country try to change their codes, but this decision also creates areas of uncertainty between one government funded program and another, solely depending on how great the remedial interest in righting historical wrongs is. 
   Lastly, the reliance interests present in this case. As mentioned above, overturning Grutter, and Bakke not only changes the admissions spectrum for universities across the nation, but changing the definition of title VI of the civil rights act causes havoc for any agency receiving federal funds. 
   This Court has been given an inch and taken a mile. Drastically upending decades of judicial precedent only to replace it with a solution both unworkable and widely damaging to a myriad of institutions in this nation. Jumping straight to the last resort of judicial intervention, and participating in judicial lawmaking. This Court has taken a wrongly decided precedent, and somehow made it even worse for everyone. 
   Given all of the concerns I have with this decision, I respectfully dissent. 
  
------------------------------------------------------------
[1]Shields, a former admissions officer at the Law School at the University of Michigan testified in Grutter that he frequently consulted daily reports which informed him of the racial and ethnic composition of the classto
ensure that a critical mass of underrepresented minority students would be reached. It was ruled that such consultation did not meet the definition of a racial quota.
[2] In evaluating the usage of race in the University of Michigans admissions process, Justice OConnor wrote that the percentages of minority admits varied from 13.5 to 20.1 percent, a range inconsistent with a quota (Grutter 336). When compared with the figures provided by SFFA, which show flexibility in percentages of ~2%, Harvards system much more closely resembles a quota, though not a hard quota (SFFA Brief). 
[3] In data gathered from 19952013 published by The Harvard Crimson, Asian American admits were shown to have the highest SAT scores out of any racial group, an average of 767 across all sections. In comparison, white admits earned an average score of 745, HispanicAmerican admits earned an average of 718, NativeAmerican and NativeHawaiian admits an average of 712, and AfricanAmerican admits an average of 704.Although The Wretched of the Earth is a modern work which is grounded in colonial realities of the current era, it is undoubtedly building off of previous works of political philosophy. In many ways, the wretched of the earth is the antithesis to previous works, by speaking from the non-white, colonized perspective. If and when colonialism has been mentioned in previous works, it almost exclusively is described as a theoretical concept, from an outside, privileged perspective. For example, in Machiavelli's The Prince, he lays out the steps that a ruler must take in order to capture and maintain power of foreign land and its people. The torture, slavery, and murder of the colonized people are mentioned in passing, and matter-of-factly. Fanon flips this idea and instead describes in detail not just the material but the psychological impact of colonialism on the colonized. Although Fanons work may seem more relevant to the present day, the more abstract works provide an important framework for understanding Fanon, specifically how different theories on mans state of nature inform the ethos and therefore behavior of the colonizers. 
Although the state of natureof man, how a person is, behaves, thinks, etc., has been implied in various philosophical works, Hobbes and Locke are some of the first philosophers to write concrete theories on how humans would behave outside the constraints and forces of society. Locke believed that the state of nature would be relatively peaceful, but that society can provide additional security and benefits for the price of giving up some freedoms. From his The Second Treatise on Human Government, he states The state of nature has a law of nature to govern it, which [] teaches all mankind, who will but consult it, that being all equal and independent, no one ought to harm another in his life, health, liberty, or possessions. Therefore, he believes that if humans are left alone they will see more benefit in being considerate of others and act accordingly. However, Hobbes believed the opposite, that during the time men live without a common power to keep them all in awe, they are in that condition which is called war; and such a war is of every man against every man (Leviathan). In this state of nature there would be no knowledge of the face of the earth; no account of time; no arts; no letters; no society and human life would be solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short (Leviathan). These opposing views are critical to understanding the psychological and philosophical basis for the colonizers treatment of the colonized.
In Fanons The Wretched of the Earth, the colonizers view the colonized much the same way as Hobbes describes the state of nature. Fanon writes that colonized  society  is  not  merely  portrayed  as  a  society  without values [...] The  native  is  declared  impervious  to  ethics,  representing  not  only  the absence  of  values  but  also  the  negation  of  values (page 6). Not only do the colonizers view the colonized as having no morals, but as being outside of morals. This reflects Hobbes idea that the state of nature is a place of total chaos without values, which presupposes an absence of society and culture, thereby stripping the native people of their humanity. In fact, when  the colonist  speaks  of  the  colonized  he  uses  zoological  terms (page 7). This shows that the colonizers regard the colonized as being in the state of nature (essentially like animals), and are using Hobbes theory to justify (perhaps on the subconscious level) their oppression on another race of people. Fanon later writes that  colonization  has  succeeded  once  this  untamed  Nature  has  been  brought  under control (page 182). This clearly connects to the central idea of the Leviathan, which explains that a strong centralized government is required to tame human nature into a peaceful, livable society. In this framework, the colonized are simply doing their part in creating better conditions for the natives to live in a more secure society. This explains the tight militaristic control, introduction of western values through education and dismissal of local cultures. Whether or not Hobbes state of nature is an accurate theory, colonizers have used it to justify their brutal and unwarranted treatment of other people. 
In the modern day, it is easy to suggest that colonizers unfairly subjugated and repressed native peoples. But under a very simple and seemingly plausible theory, the colonizers behavior can be more easily understood. However, the validity of this theory is never questioned, and most importantly, the fact that the natives live in the state of nature is never questioned. Upon confrontation with non-western society, the colonizers deem others as more primitive for superficial differences in behavior, dress, and infrastructure. Thus, Hobbes theory from the Leviathan is used more as a justification for the colonizers, and shows the danger of using, albeit important, philosophical theory in practice.Sarah Epelbaum
Brian Crawford
English 400
22 November 2022
Oedipuss Inevitable Hamartia
In the Aristotelian definition of tragedy, a character's flaw, or hamartia, is what leads them closer to their fate. A tragic hero is one who realizes their hamartia too late and cannot mend their mistakes by changing their actions. This is not the only aspect of a tragic hero, but for the sake of the argument I will be primarily focusing on this criteria. In the classic Greek play Oedipus Rex, Sophocles subverts this structure by showing only the recognition and reversal, without portraying the actions of him completing his fate (killing his father, and marrying his mother). Essentially, at no point in the play could Oedipus have avoided or changed the inevitable recognition that his fate had come true. In fact, his persistence to understand his birth story expedited the process of finding the truth. By contrast, the play Macbeth delineates the mental and physical circumstances that lead to Macbeths fall, and change to bad fortune. Apart from Oedipus having no chance of changing his mindset to avoid future mistakes, his predetermined fate was immoral to begin with. Throughout the history of civilization, most cultures have seen incest and murder (particularly of the kind described in the play) as a clear line to not be crossed. The gods essentially damned Oedipus from birth by giving him this fate which would make a person bad from an ethical perspective. Since Oedipuss fate was flawed, he could not have made any errors of judgment throughout his life. Thus, Oedipuss hamartia was predetermined by his fate. 
First, we must establish what Oedipuss hamartia is to begin with. Towards the beginning of the play, the chorus plays a major role in establishing and expanding upon the plot and underlying themes. It is clear from what the chorus is explaining that Sophocles intended for Oedipuss hamartia to be hubris or excessive pride, meaning belief in himself over the forces of the gods or nature. The chorus sings, pride breeds the tyrant violent pride, gorging, crammed to bursting with all that is overripe and rich with ruin- clawing up to the heights, headlong pride crashes down the abyss- sheer doom (963-967). Here it directly states that Oedipuss (the tyrant) problem is his hubris. Moreover, his pride is violent because he is willing to do extreme and dangerous things such as solving the sphinx's riddle and kill Laius because of his pride. He is clawing up to the heights because his status has increased up to a king, and he eventually crashes down metaphorically when he finds out the truth. The quote shows how this headlong pride will lead him to fall down from his high status. Poetics describes the tragic hero as one of those people who are held in great esteem and enjoy great good fortune and turned from good fortune to bad fortune- and this must be due not to depravity but to a serious error which Oedipus perfectly embodies with his high status and erroneous hubris (Aristotle 21). The connection between Oedipuss pride and his eventual downfall cannot be understated, as this hamartia forms the basis of how he came to complete his fate. 
In the middle of the play, Oedipus comes one step closer to finding his true identity when he exposes that he did in fact kill a group of people on a triple crossroads, like the prophecy proclaimed. He explains that the driver was about to thrust me off the road to which he replied I strike him in anger  I paid him back with interest (891-894). This moment shows how his stubbornness of not letting someone pass on the road before him led to a violent result. His hubris clouded his judgment and he was unable to let go of his pride, acting irrationally instead of analyzing whom he was killing or the consequences. Later in his explanation he even states that by god he killed the king with one blow of his staff, implying that the gods had made it unusually easier for Oedipus to kill him (895). Since Oedipuss fate was inescapable from his birth, he was bound to kill his father one way or another. No rational person would kill their father knowingly, but even without that knowledge, Oedipus was bound to kill someone. Since killing is an immoral act in and of itself, Oedipus, who was born to make this grave mistake, must have been born with a flaw which could rationalize a murder. How this flaw manifests itself to lead to him killing his father is irrelevant, but having some kind of hamartia is inescapable. In this story, his hubris led him to kill his father, but I suppose that in a parallel universe some other hamartia could have created the circumstances for completing his fate. Thus, I believe that Oedipuss hamartia was predetermined along with his fate. 
Right before Oedipus accepts his fate, the shepherd reveals that the baby that he saved was in fact Oedipus, proving that Jocasta was his mother. His last words reveal the truth about Oedipuss life at large. He states that if you are the man he says you are, believe me, you were born for pain implying that Oedipuss suffering was inevitable (1304-1305). By contrast, the messenger states that the pains we inflict upon ourselves hurt most of all, but was his pain really self-inflicted if he was born to bear this pain (1360-1361)? Thus these two opposing ideas create an oxymoron in which Oedipus was both fated to have pain, and this pain was self inflicted, implying that it came internally from his hamartia. This means that the gods indirectly gave Oedipus a hamartia through his immoral fate. This is confirmed when characters that opposed Oedipus now could not help but feel pity for him. When Creon comes to Oedipus after he goes blind he explains that I havent come to mock you, Oedipus, or to criticize your former failings reassuring Oedipus that he is not to blame for the actions related to his fate (1557-1558). The chorus asks, what god, what dark power leapt beyond all bounds, godforsaken, cursed you wretched life (1435-1438)? This indicates that perhaps the god was actually dark power, because this fate was more like an evil curse than anything else. Both with the understanding that Oedipus was cursed from birth and that his pain was inevitable and self inflicted, we can conclude that Oedipuss fate must have included a hamartia. 
From the perspective of the reader of Oedipus Rex, Oedipuss excessive pride and inability to see other points of view are obvious. What is most tragic is that in Oedipuss prior worldview, his actions make rational sense and are believable to the modern viewer. But by omitting the truth of his identity and thereby mistaking his relationships for what they are not, he leads an immoral life. With such a depressing and twisted story, one must wonder the intent of broadcasting this particular story to the masses (via a play). This inability to see the truth, one that has been waved in front of our faces, and falsely believing in your own opinions over others is a universal experience across cultures. Our human nature leads us to avoid that which is uncomfortable and which requires a total reevaluation of our existence. By taking this theme to the extreme, Sophocles shows the extent to which this hubris can lead down a path of destruction, prompting a reflection of the possibility of our own flaw that may be glaringly obvious to everyone except for ourselves. More importantly, is this flaw something that we were bound to have acquired, much like traits acquired from childhood trauma, or is it our own doing. My conviction is that our flaws are partially predetermined, but by consuming art such as Oedipus, we can begin the process of purification of our hamartias before they lead us down a destructive path. 
Works Cited
Aristotle. Poetics. Translated by Malcolm Heath. Penguin Books, 1996.
Shakespeare, William. Macbeth. Edited by Barbra A. Mowat and Paul Werstine. Simon and Schuster, 1992.
Sophocles. The Three Theban Plays: Antigone, Oedipus the King, Oedipus at Colonus. Translated by Robert Fagles. Penguin Books, 1984. 159-251
Periodical Discourses
EDITOR IN CHIEF: NELL MARCUS
SPECIAL EDITION
oppressive heat for foreseeable future
VOL. III
ST. PETERSBURG, THURSDAY , 27 JULY 1865 A SPECIAL REPRINT OF
by Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov
NO. 1000
We find Russia now in a revolution of conscience accompanied by a bitterly frustrating material sameness. As the aristocracy rises further above the  ground,  and  as  the newly-liberated peasantry is further interred beneath the dirt, we are forced to consider more deeply the relationship between citizen and country. A primary facet of this relationship is the invention of law (and, consequently, crime), the mechanism by which a government maintains power by regulating the behavior of its men.
First, it is necessary to state that crime is defined in two senses: legal crime, simply that which is prohibited by the governing body, and moral crime, that which is in defiance of nature. Violent crime, which will be the primary focus of this article, is oft considered the
most offensive act of criminality, both in a legal and moral manner; not only an affront to social order but  also  a  betrayal  of  our
instinctual and aesthetic senses. And yet blood is shed and continues to be shed, it flows and has flowed on earth, like a waterfall, which has been poured out like champagne.1 It is worth noting, too, that many trailblazers of humanity were particularly horrible shedders of blood,2 for which they were crowned on the Roman Capitoline and designated benefactors of mankind.3 How is it then, that this crime is both condemned and extolled? How is it that violent transgression is both antithetical and essential to the functioning of mankind? The resolution to this apparent impossibility lies in the psyche of the criminal himself.
In			observing				 those	 who commit such crimes we generally find two classes of men. The first, and			 the			 most		common,				are comprised of those for whom crime is accompanied by a psychological illness  a fixation of some kind  which develop[s] gradually, and reach[es] its climax not long before the	 execution	 of	 the			crime;			[it] continue[s] in the same form at the very moment of the crime and still for	some		time		 afterward,	and, depending		on			the		individual4 either			passes	away			or	becomes chronic. This illness is the root of the apparent carelessness which we can discern when examining the most common type of crime. Why does		a		criminal,	we			might		ask, forget a crucial piece of evidence? Why			does		he		flee		the scene so hastily, when nothing external seems to force him to do so? The answer to these questions is that there exists a kind of internal nervous pressure that guides the movement of the criminal and overrides his rational thoughts in the moment of action, which itself becomes the perpetrator of the crime and the spiritual inhabitant of  the  criminal.  This  sudden failure of willpower and reason, overtakes  the  body,  causing phenomenal        childish thoughtlessness, precisely at the moment when reason and caution are most needed.5 The illness is an entity outside of the self, a virus that infects the mind and compels it to betray itself. We call this illness guilt.
But this squeamish cowardice
and its resultant carelessness is symptomatic only of the first (and, as we are to discover, inferior) type of criminal. The second category
is comprised of the trailblazers and lawmakers,		who	are			praised		for their achievements, either in spite of or because of their violent crimes. For are we to believe that Napoleon was tortured by guilt? If Napoleon had		been		nothing		but		a		lowly criminal, we would have nothing left to say of him today. But we pore over him, his life, his character, his achievement,		and		 especially	his crimes. These men, Napoleons, are thus necessarily above the affliction of guilt and are able to retain reason and willpower and carry out crime without			incident,		 in			its			 perfect form.6	It is not wrong to say that for	the		 first			 man,		 the	ordinary criminal,			an				act		of			 murder		is incongruent					with			his			greater purpose		of			reproduction, and is thus unnatural. He has, in effect, committed both a moral and legal crime. But for the second man, the extraordinary criminal, there is no such incongruence, and hence no such discomfort. His purpose is to drive society forward, and, indeed, violence and bloodshed has proven to be the language of progress. The extraordinary  mans  crimes  are therefore only crimes in a legal sense, and prove to be necessary for the greater good.   The first category always comprises men of the present; the second, men of the future,7  and crime is thus as natural to the extraordinary man as obedience is to the ordinary. Such is the natural order of things, and such should be the rule in a new, progressive Russia: wherein the ordinary  are  obligated  to  be obedient  because  thats  their destiny, and the extraordinary initiate the destruction of the present  order  in  the  name  of something better:8 a new order, a new Russia, a New Jerusalem.9
In Response to
THURSDAY , 27 JULY 1865
Still, the fundamental problem
On Crime
by Porfiry Petrovich
On Crime, by Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov,					meditates				on		the nature of crime and the function of guilt		in		 the					salaciously		tangled political,				philosophical,				and physical landscape of contemporary Russia.		I				suppose			its			 not surprising that this little article fascinated me, as a police inspector, merely	by		 way		of	its				unique assertion		 that			the				 act			of committing			a			crime		is				always accompanied			by		[an]		 illness,10 which causes a criminal to make otherwise		inexplicable			mistakes. But I must confess, my fascination with	the piece goes beyond the nature  of  my  profession  I recognize in the writing a certain youthful, idealistic fervor. In the very rhythm of the words I can sense the authors urgency; I can feel the incessant cramping in his hand as he goes on writing even as his words run into each other; hear the racing and pounding of the heart11   as  he  wipes  the perspiration from his furrowed brow; I can see the subtle smirk that transforms his face as he pens a particularly biting line. There is something undeniably endearing in that  first,  ardent,  youthful literary effort.12 In this case, I was especially  taken  by  the  idea mentioned at the end of the article, [...] that there exist in the world certain people [...] who have every right  to  commit  any  kind  of outrages and crimes, and that the laws do not apply to them.13 This proposition    is    especially demonstrative of the unavoidable vice of the aforementioned naive enthusiasm  that is, excessive egoism.
I shall not attempt to be too thorough in my analysis of the faults of the theory itself, which are numerous and glaring, for that constitutes a fundamental misapprehension of the nature of this article  which is not to be considered a serious piece of work.
with the theory, the question of how we can distinguish the extraordinary from the ordinary,14 is at the heart of the whole matter. There is nothing to stop an ordinary man from convincing himself or, more essentially, convincing others, that he is extraordinary. And, if the power is put in the hands of the men themselves to claim that coveted right to transcend the law, couldnt this imposter then claim his right and go on to remove all obstacles blocking his way15 in pursuit of his farcical visions for the future? Whats to stop Russia from falling victim to hundreds of these ecstatic false idols? For, truly, who among us in Holy Rus doesnt consider himself a Napoleon these days?16 In fact, I even wonder if this was also the conviction of our own Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov in writing this very articleif, excited by the novelty of his own thoughts thereby consumed by themif he might also have considered [himself], even the tiniest bit, to be an extraordinary man uttering some new word.17
Let us return to our image of		the				 young				Raskolnikov, toiling away on his article, each second		 more				frenzied					and irritated				with			a		 self-satisfied nervousness	and		 glee,		as			he articulates the theory on which he	has		predicated			his			entire being. In his own mind, the act of writing this article is its own peculiar			transgression,	 which, though not fully realized, marks him			as	brimming		with			 latent greatness. Such is the defect of all such			young		Schillers:18			 the willingness				 to					believe wholeheartedly		in			their				own greatness. These are blind men who purport to see what they cannot,	who insist on acting beyond their rank and ability, who claim to know the truths of right and wrong. Raskolnikov, in being  one  of  these  men, dismantles  his  own  theory effortlessly, with no need for my embellishment!
Advertisements
CRYSTAL PALACE TAVERN OPEN LATE
. , 629, . 873
 BOOKS
NEW POPULIST BOOKSHOP
 40  , 307, . 589
ADRIANOPLE HOTEL
ROOMS VACANT
 , 251, .
271
years hence.25
Classifieds
LONELY?
In want of a companion for one Praskovya Pavlovna, a very kindly woman, probably around 40, who rents several apartments on Stolyarnyi Lane.
I have kept her company for some time now  and she is really a very very amiable		woman!		 And			even			quite something, in all respects!26 I really do like her very much, its just that a man only has so much time, and [t]heres a complicating		factor		 involved,27	which makes it difficult for me to cease and even more difficult for me to continue these meetings. But I wish to do right by her, and it really is much the same to her, whether its me or someone else; so long as theres someone to sit with her.28 All one needs to do is talk, on any subject at all, to satisfy her well, thats all there is to it. Youll be terribly comfortable; just like home		read,		sit,		lie	down,		write,29 whatever pleases you! If interested, please contact			me,			Dmitry				Prokofich Razumikhin,			at		 my		residence	in Pochinkovs	house,		you		wont		regret it!30
DISSATISFIED? REJECT SOCIETY!
In search of prospective commune members.
To the discontented: there exists another way organizing society[,] in the form of a commune,31 where possessions, duties, and relationships which have previously been matters of the individual become matters of the collective. A commune represents the natural end of protest, that is, complete and total rejection of the current social order: that which is foolish here will become clever there; that which is unnatural here, [...] will become completely natural there.32
I,	Andrey	Semyonovich Lebezyatnikov, with the help of a several other educated and highly progressive individuals, am organizing one such commune, which is to be located somewhere on Meshchanskaya Street.33 We are looking for more people to join us in this noble endeavor. I myself am even willing to educate any prospective members on these complicated matters so as to further incite their protest.34 If interested, please reach out to me, Lebezyatnikov, at my residence at Amaliya Ivananovnas.
1 570
2 285
3 570, cont. from quote 1: [...] and for which they crown people on the Roman Capitoline and designate them benefactors of mankind.
4 78
5 78
6 77, 78, Raskolnikov implies that guilt can be overcome by great reason.: why are almost all crimes so conspicuous, so easily discovered, and the traces of all criminals revealed so obviously? and One must simply exercise ones willpower and all ones reason over these difficulties.
7 287
8 286
9 287, Raskolnikov discussing his theory with Porfiry: In a word, all men have equally strong rights, andvive la guerre ternelleuntil the New Jerusalem, of course!
10 284
11 497
12 498
13 284
14 287, one of Porfirys questions for Raskolnikov about his article: But tell me this: how does one distinguish the extraordinary people from the ordinary ones?
15 290
16 291-2
17 291
18 507, Porfiry to Raskolnikov in their final conversation: Why are you smiling again: because I sound like Schiller? I bet you suppose that Im now trying to worm myself into your good graces! *Raskolnikov is also called a Schiller several times by Svidrigailov.
19 6, as Raskolnikov approaches Alyona Ivanovnas apartment, which he is leaving when he
finds Marmeladov dying: he approached an immense building, one wall of which opened onto a narrow canal, the other onto Sadovaya Street.
20 200
21 23
22 17
23 261: Ive come from Katerina Ivanovna; she had no one else to send. . . . Katerina Ivanovna wants me to implore you to attend the funeral tomorrow morning . . . during the morning service . . . at the Mitrofanyevsky Cemetery, and then to come to our apartment . . . to her place . . . for some refreshment.
24 419
25 421
26 136
27 230
28 230, Razumikhin trying to pass the landlady off to Zosimov: its absolutely all the same to her whether its you or me, as long as someones sitting next to her and sighing.
29 229
30 186: Razumikhin, trying to convince Raskolnikov to come to his housewarming party: Remember, its Pochinkovs house [...]
31 405
32 406
33 402
34 406, Lebezyatnikov on his relationship to Sonya: I was simply trying to educate her, completely innocently, trying to incite her to protest.	e400- world literature	luca millard	-kish
03.23.2023
PERIODICAL DISCOURSE
St. Petersburg

Th ur sday
On Cr ime
I write to you today	to	share my thoughts		on		the psychological state of a criminal during the commission			of	 his crime .1 Some readers may throw			up their hands in protest as they		read				about crime,									an
overstepping	of common laws, but I aim to inform you of the reasoning and perhaps right of the criminal to comport themselves in such a manner as to be considered
criminal . As a deep thinker and former
overstep			 the						 law, because, dont					you see, theyre ordinary . But			extraordinary people have the right to commit all sorts of crimes						and								to overstep					 precisely because							theyre extraordinary					(284). In				a								 sense, extraordinary			people have		the			right					 to permit												[their] conscience														 to overstep				various obstacles,and only in the	case		that					the execution		 of						their idea						(sometimes, perhaps,			one				that would				benefit						all

Bridges represent a change: Even his glum mood had passed; there was no trace of the former energy hed felt when hed left home to end it all (188).
law student, Ive come to discover and name an observable truth about the nature of humanity . There exist, in this world, two types of people: those who are ordinary, and those who	are
extraordinary . I believe that ordinary people must live in obedience and do not have the right to
mankind) requires it
(285).This		comes down to the question of whether one bad deed is balanced out by the multitude		of good				it			 would provide .				And				I believe, if the person acting			with			some potential			violence is truly	extraordinary, then their actions can be justified		by		the larger benefit to
society.
But, don t take my word for it. Lets examine some of the extraordinary figures fr om history in hopes of understanding the truly revelatory ideas that justify, or could justify	seemingly violent actions. Take Kepler or Newton for example. Th ese two brilliant minds were,
in a way, compelled to spread their new word of scientific discovery to the world. Anyone who doubted,
contradicted,	or interfered with their ideas	therefore purely hindered the dissemination of world- shattering 
new insight. Th ese extraordinary 
1I wasexaminingi,f I recall,thepsychologicasltateof thecriminalduringtheentirecommissionof his crime(284).
p.2| 03.23.2023 | Thursday	luca millard	-kish
Ever y new idea t h at disr upt s t h e nat ur al or der of societ y is seen as cr imin al in it s newness.
scientists then have a right, or even an obligation, to share their new word with the worldeven if this means the elimination of those in their way. Th is notion, however, isn t new. We can trace it back to ancient leaders such as Lycurgus, the Solon, Mohammed,
Napoleon, and the like. Ever y new idea that disrupts the natural order of society is seen as criminal in its newness. But to this, I respond that, of the two categories of men (ordinary	and extraordinary), Th e fir st category always comprises men of the present; the second, men  of  the  future
(286).Th e trailblazers of humankind that pushed society
forward were often quite egregious blood shedders, but does that mean that wed rather give up all of the new ideas that they brought to society? Would we rather remain in an ordinary rut where everyone is too scared to disrupt the present,
compromising the potential of the future? Th e criminals of one time and place, with the passage of years, decades, and centuries, become the heroes	and
revolutionary
intellectuals	of another time.
Now, dear Reader, if you still fin d yourself unsure how you fit into this matrix of humanity, I urge you to consider these definitions. In order to distinguish
between the two types of people, we must examine how they fit into the fabric of society. Th e ordinary category consists	of
conservative people by nature, well- behaved, who live in obedience and like being obedient (286). Th ey don t even fin d this	obedience humiliating since its so deeply ingrained in their nature.2 In contrast, the second category of truly extraordinary people consists of people who break the law, destroyers			or, judging by their abilities,		those predisposed to be so (286). Again, one must remember, if you fin d yourself identified				as
extraordinary, or even as one of the endless subdivisions
between	the		two ways of being, your end goal must justify your	action	in		its betterment of society.
Therefore, with this understanding, I conclude			that everyone, not only the great people, but even those who stand out just slightly fr om the everyday rut, that is, those who are even marginally capable of uttering some new word, must by their nature, necessarily be criminalsmore or less, it goes without saying (286). Those who are part of an unusually	small number3 of people must be able to permit		their conscience to wade through blood4 if it is a direct means to attain their goal (th at is of the right nature and dimensions, of course).
sincer el y, R.R.
p.3| 03.23.2023 | Thursday	luca millard	-kish
St. Petersburg Tavern
col d beer s
Come drop into St. Petersburgs favorite tavern to unload and decompress after a long day!
billiards

good company
Our quaint, rustic, tavern is the perfect spot to process the ever changing world around you.
Marmeladovs burial site.
marmeladovs obituary
ByKaterinaIvanovna
To many, the passing of a loved one is a lachrymose time of	melancholy remembrance and appreciation .
Unfortunately, my sentiment around my husbands death is not . Why did you squander your life in such a way? Why did you trouble our family with your addiction and lack of judgment? I now

desperately ask, did you	get		what		 you wanted? Did you now find		your				sorrow? Have				you		now genuinely		 suffered?5 I left my educated life to follow			you6, and you just robbed from me, your own family, to spend it all in the tavern. Apologies for sounding insensitive, but	 this				drunkard wasted his life		and mine .			Thank	 God hes dying! Well lose less (204)!
p.4| 03.23.2023 | Thursday	luca millard	-kish
On On Cr ime
My name is Porfiry Petrovich, and Im the magistrate leading the investigation into the murder of pawnbroker, Alyna Ivnovna.
Throughout my years of work and during this		particular investigation, Ive become intimately aware of the subtle nuances of a troubled criminal mind. So, as you might imagine, a certain			article published in this very paper, by the name of On Cr ime, quite piqued my interest.7 Th is article by a self- proclaimed pundit, anonymously signed R.R., discussed, in astonishing detail, the psychological state of a criminal during their crime. In addition, the article went	on		to wholeheartedly
such criminal actions as long as theyre carried out by one deemed
extraordinary. Th is distinction between ordinary	and extraordinary is bold, and I applaud the courage it takes to make such a statement, but Im afraid this overly straightforward 
delineation between members of society isn t quite as revolutionary and foolproof as the author claims.
Now,
dear R.R., I speak directly to you, sir. First of all, while you appear to be acting within your own ideal matrix by spreading this new word,	the
unfortunate truth is that these concepts are verisimilar to notions that have been bruited many times befor e now.8
To that end, what is really original? Is it only an original, or dare I use your terminology,    new
word that so conveniently
provides the right to mow down others in an effor t to spread it (288)? If this is as you say, sir, I fear that the most natural next question is: what happens if some confusion results and one of the ordinary category imagines that he belongs to the other one, and begins to elim inate all obstacles (287). If one, either with reason or purely fr om self- entitled whim sy, begins to believe that they have the rights youve enumerated above, how must we, mere	plebeians, distinguish between those who are truly extraordinary and those who are too
blind to see that they hardly  stand  out fr om the hoi polloi? 9
To that end, permit me to present a silly and playful idea that I can t seem to purge fr om my mind after reading your little article. Sir, excuse me for potentially being too upfront, it is after all in my job description,	but might I query that wh en you were composing your little articlecould		it possibly be the case [...] that you might also have considered yourself, even the tiniest bit, to be an extraordinary man uttering some new word  [...]  (291)?
Upon reaching this conclusion, I would assume that your natural next thoughts might be that you yourself had an obligation,	and therefore a right, to overstep obstacles, circumstances, and constraints in an effor t to benefit mankind.10
Please
do not misconstrue my intentions by proposing such a chimerical
possibility. However, if this does happen to
p.5| 03.23.2023 | Thursday	l uca mil l ar d-kish
be the casethat youve gone ahead and overstepped such ordinary
limitations 			I		do partly				understand where youre coming from .			Upon				first reading, I ridiculed 11 your little article, but the truth is, that Im familiar 12 with		 some of	those ideas and feelings. And so, in conclusion,	 I		write this		response as a word		of	warning about the dangers of this						proud
suppressed enthusiasm13	that oozesfrom your
florid and persuasive lexicon (497). Your article   is   well
written a    good
article,		 I				 must admit but it reeks of ignorant, young, and incorruptible				pride buried	within			an absurdly			fantastic notion .14 Pleasethink things				through rationally		if			it		isnt already too late.
sincer el y,
por f iry pet r ovich
Svidr igayl ovs Suicide Not e
Zo Predmore
Brian Crawford 
E400: Great Works of Literature
16 December 2022 
Macbeth Would Ignore His English Teacher 
Decisions are made every day, a thousand times over. Babies decide what foods they like and dislike. Adults decide where they want to live and work. High schoolers writing essays decide on topics, word choice, and whether or not they want to listen to the advice of their English teachers. English teachers decide to give their students bad grades if their essays lack explication. Some decisions are less important, like what one should eat for breakfast, while others have a more impactful effect on ones life. Therefore, hand-in-hand with decision-making comes the stress of deciphering whether one is making the right choice. As a result, countless attempts have been made to provide others with lessons on how to know if a choice will have a positive or negative result. We can see these themes appear in theater, even dating back to ancient Greece. Aristotle believed that the point of theater is to teach audiences how to respond to different situations. In watching fictional characters make mistakes and suffer from them, the hoi polloi can learn how to avoid making similarly misguided decisions. Plays that teach these lessons are called tragedies, and they emphasize the idea that some characters (tragic heroes) have a fatal flaw -hamartia - that leads them to make decisions that will eventually lead to their demise. Specifically, a hamartia is an internal flaw that a character is oblivious to and recognizes only once its too late, and the damage has already been done. Oedipus Rex, by Sophocles, and Macbeth, by William Shakespeare, are tragedies that feature characters whose hamartia leads them to make decisions that negatively impact their lives. Both texts focus on characters facing a hard decision, with outside forces giving them advice on what to do. These external opinions conflict with the characters own internal instinct, forcing them to decide whether or not they will listen to the guidance of others. The plays Macbeth and Oedipus Rex offer lessons, albeit contradictory ones, on how one can make decisions, and know if that choice is right or wrong. 
Sophocles uses his play, Oedipus Rex, to provide a warning against ignoring those who know better. Oedipus is a king who unknowingly kills his father and marries his mother, Jocasta, setting a plague upon the city of Thebes. Oblivious to the fact that he is the cause of Thebes curse, Oedipus is determined to capture the culprit scourging the city and attempts to gain information from Tiresias, a seer blessed with divination. Tiresias, a mouthpiece of Apollo, warns Oedipus to should stop searching for answers, lest he discovers that he is the criminal he vowed to deracinate. However, Oedipus refuses to listen and accuses Tiresias of treachery:
OEDIPUS. No, I can't say I grasped your meaning.
       Out with it, again! 
TIRESIAS. I say you are the murderer you hunt. 
OEDIPUS. That obscenity, twiceby god, you'll pay. (Sophocles 180)
Oedipus is confused by Tiresias veiled warnings and demands the seer repeat himself. Yet, when Tiresias does, Oedipus gets angry and shouts threats, refusing to believe that he himself could be cursing Thebes. Tiresias acts as a mouthpiece for the gods, a greater power in the lives of ancient Greeks, and when Oedipus refuses to listen to or believe Tiresias words, he is scorning the words of the gods as well, implying he knows better than those with omniscient powers. This shows how Oedipus fatal flaw is hubris, an excess of pride, as this is what fuels him to reject the opinions of other, wiser, people. When Oedipus and Jocasta discover the truth, she kills herself, and Oedipus himself gorges his eyes out, making his previously metaphorical blindness literal. Oedipus realizes that his hubris blinded him to the possibility that he was responsible for cursing Thebes. He ends the play in shame and misery and realizes that those who warned him were not out to get him, but rather were attempting to help him. While external forces attempt to convince Oedipus that he might be wrong, his internal pride didnt allow him to listen. Oedipus Rex shows readers that if wiser or greater people are questioning ones actions, perhaps one should listen. 
Similarly, Jocasta, Oedipus mom and, later, wife, offers a lesson about hubris, and the dangers of overconfidence. When Oedipus is a baby, Jocasta receives the prophecy that he is destined to kill his father and then marry her, his mother. In an attempt to avoid this fate, she sends him away to be killed by a shepherd. However, this shepherd takes pity on Oedipus and sends him to live with King Polybus and Queen Merope in a different city. When Oedipus later receives this same prophecy, he runs away from the King and Queen, unaware that he is adopted and they are not his biological parents. On his journey back to Thebes, he kills his true father and, upon his return, marries Jocasta. Jocasta does not suspect that Oedipus could be her son, as she fully believes she had him killed. Jocastas fatal flaw is not her decision to have Oedipus killed, but rather her hidebound certainty that this choice allowed her to escape her fate. She later tells Oedipus; ...nothing human can penetrate the future. Here is proof, quick and to the point, and explains how she avoided her own prophecy. There, you see? Apollo brought neither thing to pass (Sophocles, 201). She dismisses the word of Apollo as merely chimerical and tells Oedipus to do the same, believing that she was able to outwit the gods. Her hubris blinds her to the possibility that her son could still be alive, and that the prophecy is true. When she finally discovers that Oedipus is, in fact, alive and married to her, she commits suicide. Jocastas character warns us, the readers, not to be overconfident in our actions, as an abundance of pride can blind us to other errors. In Oedipus Rex, Sophocles proposes not only that we should listen to the advice of others, and also suggests that we should never be overly confident in our own decisions. 
Shakespeares Macbeth provides a contradictory lesson, showing how ones own conscience can be the best indicator of right and wrong. Macbeth gets a prophecy from three witches who apprise him that he is to be king, despite the fact that King Duncan is still living. Unsure of what this prophecy could mean, Macbeth confides in his wife who convinces him to kill Duncan and ascend to power. While Lady Macbeth is confident in this decision, Macbeth himself is torn between his ambition and his loyalty to the crown. He speaks to Lady Macbeth, stating; We will proceed no further in this business: He hath honour'd me of late (Shakespeare, 41). Macbeth refuses to continue plotting Duncans assassination, recalling how kind the king has been. Macbeths conscience, his internal sense, is telling him that committing regicide is wrong, yet Lady Macbeths ribald persuasion eventually convinces him to carry out the murder. However, after killing King Duncan, Macbeth panics and hallucinates voices:
 Methought I heard a voice cry 'Sleep no more!.../'Glamis hath murder'd sleep, and therefore Cawdor/Shall sleep no more; Macbeth shall sleep no more/I'll go no more/I am afraid to think what I have done/Look on't again I dare not. (Shakespeare, 57)  
Macbeth claims he heard disembodied voices in Duncans chamber, telling him that he will sleep no more. Macbeth feels shame and fear over his actions, demonstrated by his refusal to return to Duncans room. As the play progresses, Macbeths guilt over all his actions accumulates, leading him to insanity. He is haunted by the ghost of his friend Banquo (whom he had killed), whose spirit appears covered in blood. This ghost, as well as the disembodied voices, act as literal manifestations of Macbeths growing guilt. He cannot rest easy, as he is literally chased by the memories of those he murdered. The presence of Macbeths guilt implies he feels a discrepancy between what he believes to be morally right and his actions. If he had ignored Lady Macbeths persuasion and listened to his conscience, he would have never started down the path of shame. This shows how one of the lessons of Macbeth is to trust ones internal instinct, and not to succumb to the pressure of the ambitions of others. 
Oedipus Rex and Macbeth provide audiences guidance when determining the right decisions from the wrong ones. As tragedies, these two plays demonstrate fatal mistakes, offering a lesson on how we can avoid similar errors. Oedipus Rex advises that we should listen to those who hold more power or knowledge, as our own perception can be obfuscated by personal faults. On the other hand, Macbeth recommends that we should trust our own instinct, and not be influenced by the possibly-biased views of others. While these lessons are presented in the context of gods and witches, we should consider the advice through a broader lens. After all, usually, witches will not prophesize what we should eat for dinner, nor will Apollo ask a student to explain why they know what they know. Still, dissecting these characters from a psychological standpoint preserves their value. While an average person may not worship Greek gods (or their mouthpieces), these deities can represent a figure that is wiser and holds more authority, perhaps a parent, teacher, or other pundit. Oedipus Rex suggests that these people are to be listened to, as they likely know better than us. Alternatively, Shakespeare suggests that internal conscience is the best indicator of judgment. While not all of us have an evil wife whispering in our ear, we may be surrounded by others whose opinions contradict personal beliefs. This appears in Genesis when Eve convinces Adam to eat the fruit, despite Gods warnings. Macbeth would advise Adam to trust his instinct and refuse Eves temptation. In the end, it is up to us to decide what advice we should follow; to decide which text will help us deduce what is right and wrong. Hopefully, we chose correctly, and avoid becoming yet another tragic hero.
Zo Predmore
Profe Lupe Fisch
Espaol 500
24 de Enerno 2023
Ocultando a la Vista: Temas Homosexuales en Los Sontes Del Amor Oscuro 
A pesar de Federico Garca Lorca es famoso para sus obras influyentes del mundo de arte, algunos de sus poemas del amor ms profundos permancan secreto hasta mucho despues de su muerte en 1936. Las Sonetos de Amor Oscuro eran guardado por un amigo ntimo de Lorca, Vicente Aleixandre, y los hijos de Aleixandre hasta fueron publicado finalmente por ABC en 1984. Estas poemas encierran la identidad gay secreta de Lorca, y dan ms conocimiento a sus emociones; sus penas y alegras de la vida que tena que ocultar. Cuando Lorca escribi los sonetos - durante un fin de semana en un hotel en Valencia - el pas fue un medioambiente de divergencia y tensin politicl, con la guerra civil espaola comenziendo en los aos prximos. La clima permiti para violencia nacional y era muy peligroso especialmente para los homosexuales. Federico Franco, el lder del los fuerzas nacionalistas fascistas y, finalmente, el dictador de espaa, propagaba mensajes de homofobia entre de su partido. Era imposible para Lorca a expresar su homosexualidad pblicamente sin arriesgando muerte. Aun as, sus obras homoroticos combinaron con sus acciones y escritos a apoyo de los republicanos (el partido opuesto del Franco) haca Lorca un blanco, y fue asesinado por los nacionalistas en agusto de 1936. Sin embargo, mitad de un dcada despues de su assasinacin, las Sonetos de Amor Oscuro, un tributo de su identidad, fue mostrado al mundo. Este ensayo enforcara en dos de las poemas; El Soneto de Dulce Queja y El Poeta Habla Por Telfono Con el Amor. Mientras de las obras de Lorca son conocidos para su vaguedad y smbolos con capas, analizando los sonetos puede darnos un conocimiento mejor de las temas de sexualidad. En Los Sonetos de Amor Oscuro, Lorca usa criaturas como metforas para su homosexualidad.  
Un motivo que aparece en las obras de Lorca es la naturaleza, especificamente criaturas, como un metfora para homosexualidad. En el soneto La Poeta Habla Por Telefono Con El Amor el verso final describe el voz del amor;
Lejana como oscura corza herida.
Dulce como un sollozo en la nevada.
Lejana y dulce en tutano metida!
El uso de la corza en este contexto seala un simbolo para los sentimientos contrastes de Lorca sobre su sexualidad. La corza, un tipo de ciervo, tiene una connotacin bblica sobre reticencia de temptacin y deseos sexuales. Yo os conjuro, oh doncellas de Jerusaln, por los corzos y por las ciervas del campo, que no despertis ni hagis velar al amor hasta que quiera. (La Biblia de Reina Valera Gmez).  Este pasaje significa control, diciendo las hijas a no participan en actos sexuales hasta el tiempo es correcto (pressunamente hasta son casados). Sin embargo, en el soneto, Lorca escribe que la corza tiene una herida. Es posible que este se refiera que el no poda controllar su deseo, o el facto que la relacin es entre de dos hombres. Usando juztapositin, entre el simbulo de la Biblia (con catolicismo siendo una creenicia clave de las nacionalistas) y las temas homosexuales, Lorca ilustra un medioabiente de polarizacin, interno y externo, de su vida. En El Soneto de La Dulce Queja, Lorca comienza la poema con el miedo de perdiendo su amante. El sonto describe un relacin txico. La lnea Si t eres el tesoro oculto mo, / si eres mi cruz y mi dolor mojado monstra un patrn de sufrimiento para su amor y, como Jess, sacrifiendo un mismo para una causa. Este da contexto para un otro ejemplo de la naturaleza. La frase de noche me pone en la mejilla / la solitaria rosa de tu aliento se puede leer como un simbolo romantico, como el sonrojo de amor. Sin embargo, la palabra solitarlia tiene un otro significado tambin, que una tena. Si rosa esta describiendo solitaria (en lugar del otro manera alrededor), este crea un significado doble de la poema. En adicin, un verso despus menciona para el gusano de mi sufrimiento. Una solitaria se comporta como un simbolo para una influencia que est doliendo Lorca. La solitaria se alimenta de la poeta, robando el sustento que l necesita a sobrevivir, como el secreto de homosexualidad resta sus abilidades a amor. Como la corza, Lorca usa la solitaria como un smbolo enmascarado de su identidad gay. 
A primera vista estes poemas, Lorca aparece a incluye criaturas casi al azar. Mucho de los sonetos son empastados con referencias a la sexualidad de Lorca, que no expresaba explcitamente. En retrospectiva, conociendo la vida de Lorca, es ms facil a identifica simbolos sobre su homosexualidad. Sin embargo, en el tiempo, Lorca tena cuidado a aludir a la solomente con metfora, porque el significado puede cambiar a basa de el lector. Usando estes simbolos, Lorca poda expresear su amor imesno y pena profunda sin revelando su identidad 	autntica.   
 
 
	
Bibliografa
Cruz, Antonio. The Eroticism of Roe Deer. Translated by Roger Marshall, Evangelical Focus, 17 May 2019, https://evangelicalfocus.com/zoe/4449/the-eroticism-of-roe-deer. 
Feenstra, Peter G. Song of Songs 2:7 - The Restraint on the Way of a Man with a Woman. Christian Library, Jan. 2003, https://www.christianstudylibrary.org/article/song-songs-27-restraint-way-man-woman#:~:text=Praise%20be%20to%20our%20God,only%20for%20the%20marriage%20bond. 
Reina, Casiodoro de, and Cipriano de Valera. La Santa Biblia: Antiguo y Nuevo Testamento. CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 2015. 
Sonetos Del Amor Oscuro. Garca Lorca, Antonio Heras, 2007, https://federicogarcialorca.net/obras_lorca/sonetos_del_amor_oscuro.htm 
Garca, Alejandro V. Biography of Federico Garca Lorca - Dark Loves (1935). Universo Lorca, https://www.universolorca.com/en/biography-of-federico-garcia-lorca/dark-loves-1935/.
 
Garca, Alejandro V. Vicente Aleixandre Merlo. Universo Lorca, https://www.universolorca.com/en/personaje/aleixandre-y-merlo-vicente/.  
Plato: What is the ideal education system?
Amelia: In order to answer that question, we first must ask, What is the fundamental nature of humankind? How can we begin to determine what to teach students if we dont first understand what innate qualities students have? 
Plato: I agree. Indeed that question must first be answered.
Amelia: Well then, the first question we must consider in our efforts to understand the nature of humankind is whether humans are born with inherent talents in certain subjects. 
Plato: I believe that no two people are born exactly alike. There are innate differences which fit them for different occupations (Platos Republic Book II, 56). 
Amelia: I must agree. For example, if people were not born with innate aptitudes, how could one explain prodigies? How could one explain why siblings (who grow up receiving the same education and experiences) struggle and excel in different disciplines? 
Plato: Exactly. 
Amelia: And now having established that people are born with such natural talents, would you agree that an efficient and well-functioning society would take advantage of these innate aptitudes by placing people in jobs they are best suited for? 
Plato: Yes, society would advance if jobs are filled with the people best suited for them. 
Amelia: So then one goal for education should be to identify students innate aptitudes and lead them down paths that will help further develop their talents and prepare them for careers that utilize their talents. 
Plato: Yes. Now can we begin to devise a system that achieves this goal?
Amelia: Not yet. In addition to determining whether humans have natural talents for certain subjects, we must also ask whether humans are instinctually good citizens.
Plato: How do you define a good citizen?  
Amelia: A good citizen is one who actively contributes to the function and advancement of society. In order to contribute in such a way, one must be capable of critical thinking and questioning and must aim to advance society rather than solely their self-interest. 
Plato: I believe that humans are not naturally born with such skills. Rather, I think we are inherently more concerned with ourselves than with others and we naturally depend on others to form our opinions. As Bloom says about the nature of mankind in a democracy, In the absence of anything else to which to turn, the common beliefs of most men are almost always what will determine judgment (Bloom, 247). 
Amelia: Exactly. Ironically, even under a democratic government, which in and of itself encourages independent thinking, people still search for an authority figure to feed them their thoughts. This demonstrates that independent thinking is not ingrained in human nature and thus conveys the importance of teaching people to think critically.
Plato: I agree. However, before we continue, let me make sure I understand what we have discussed. We have established that education is meant to achieve two goals. First, education should aim to produce citizens capable of critical thinking and selflessness. Second, education should aim to identify innate talents and lead students to exercise those talents in career paths best suited to their natures.  
Amelia: Yes. 
Plato: How can such goals be achieved?
Amelia: Let's first begin with primary and secondary education. All primary and secondary education institutions will have a standardized liberal arts curriculum focused on developing students abilities to think independently. 
Plato: How will a liberal arts education achieve this goal? 
Amelia: A liberal arts education provides students with foundational knowledge in an array of subjects. Such education is necessary for students to formulate their own worldviews and opinions. 
Plato: Indeed, if one does not understand how the world functions, one does not have any structure with which to critique or agree.
Amelia: Yes. In this way, a liberal arts education is compatible with teaching the Socratic method and other methods of critical thinking. In primary and secondary school, the liberal arts curriculum will promote the understanding of different subjects in conjunction with the questioning of such subjects. 
Plato: You also mentioned that education should teach people to think about society rather than just their own self-interests. Does a liberal arts education also promote this type of thinking? 
Amelia: While a liberal arts education does not have a monopoly over encouraging this type of thinking, it is still an effective way to teach sentiments of anti-egoism because it forces all students to interact with literature. Literature tends to convey values more powerfully because it brings people into a story and lets them experience and feel the value of a particular principle. 
Plato: What about the Principle of Specialization? A liberal arts education certainly does not divide or sort students' educational studies based on their innate aptitudes. In fact, it does the opposite. 
Amelia: Not quite so fast. I did not say that a liberal arts education would extend into university. Liberal arts education in primary and secondary school will expose students to different subjects. By the conclusion of secondary school, students understandings of each subject will have reached an advanced enough level for interests and talents to be identified. After students potentials in each subject are identified, liberal arts will no longer be the basis for school curriculums. 
Plato: What is the problem with teaching a liberal arts curriculum in universities?
Amelia: Few people are adept in multiple fields. 
Plato: A man does better keeping to one trade than working at many trades (Plato, 57).
Amelia. Indeed. Therefore, a liberal arts education at the university level does not prepare most people for a career. Students finish their education without specialization in any one subject. The socio-economic elite can then attend graduate school where they are prepared for a career in a single field. However, others are left in debt without their potential fully being reached and without the credentials necessary to work in an advanced field. 
Plato: So what will replace the liberal arts education? 
Amelia: Each university will be devoted to a particular field of study. There will be an entrance exam for each university that serves as an aptitude test. This means that only people capable of pursuing a career in that field will be admitted to the university. 
Plato: Will aptitude tests vary in difficulty depending on the university? 
Amelia: No. All universities focused on the same subject will have the same aptitude test. This means that the selectiveness of the university one attends will not play a role in determining ones career path. In other words, students aptitude test scores collected directly after secondary school when they have not yet immersed themselves in the study of their subject will not determine their capabilities for specific jobs within a field. 
Plato: Then how will the very adept be distinguished from just the adept? How will we determine who is fit for the most advanced jobs in society?
Amelia: The first two years at university will be spent focused on developing everyones understanding of a certain topic. Then, based on ones performance over the first two years, students will be divided into two sections. The first section, composed of students that performed in the bottom 70-80%,  will follow a pre-professional course for the rest of university. This course will prepare students for specific jobs so they may begin work directly after graduating from university. The second section composed of students who performed in the top 20-30% of the class will continue deepening their understanding of the subjects. Only the latter section of students qualify for graduate school which will prepare them for careers in more academically demanding fields. 
Plato: But what about people who are adept at and interested in multiple subjects? 
Amelia: Again, few people are adept at multiple subjects and want to pursue an interdisciplinary field that requires advanced knowledge in multiple disciplines. However, for such people, there will be a small number of liberal arts universities that allow students to study at an advanced level in multiple disciplines. Only those that are best at critical thinking will be permitted to attend such institutions. 
Plato: Indeed, this education system seems to be fitting for a society that values the principle of specialization and independent, selfless thinking.
 
The Wretched of the Earth & the Blessed of the Heavens: Oppression as Psychological Violence
The dogma of oppression always draws clear lines in the sand. It always takes great care to erect a fortress for the systems beneficiaries, one thats impenetrable to those who do not enjoy a privileged status. The message is clear: there is a place for the superior and there is a place for the inferior; this order is not to be disrupted. To prevent illicit crossing, officers of the regime police the border, with their vital organs protected and their weapons at the ready. This concept, of two parallel societies, is an eternal one. Saint Augustine, in 426 AD, disseminated his vision of two cities: the City of God: of the heavens, and the City of Man: of the earth. The former is a paradise, beatified by the love of and for God, and the latter is a sinful, degenerate ghetto resultant of mans love for himself and for pleasure. Augustines border agents, in this case, are members of the church, who declare adamantly that passage into paradise is impossible to achieve on Earth, and that true contentment can be found only in the afterlife. The City of God is a city of immovable ideals, a perfect, static image of harmony. It is the model by which we should fashion our lives, the touchstone by which we should measure our behavior. But it is never to be entered by man on Earth, for such a transgression disrupts the order of duality upon which the ideology depends. It is eternal, and we are fleeting. This duality is mirrored by every power structure that seeks to permeate the psyches of the oppressed to safeguard itself from overthrow. Those in power fashion an image of themselves that imitates divinity and ascribes to themselves the characteristics of walking Gods, and in doing so impress upon the oppressed populations the notion of an impassable divide.
Frantz Fanon, Algerian revolutionary and radical political thinker, like Augustine, introduces us to a set of twin cities: the respective sectors of the colonists and colonized. As with the cities of God and man, these two sectors are wholly exclusive. Like the City of God, [t]he
colonist's sector is a sector built to last, all stone and steel, and, like the City of Man,  is a disreputable place inhabited by disreputable people.1 Simone de Beauvoir, in her seminal feminist work The Second Sex, finds another similar duality, that of  the Subject, [...] the Absolute and the Other.2 She speaks, of course, of the divide between Man and Woman. Like colonialism, the patriarchy clearly designates two places: a mans place, that is, personhood itself, and a womans place, a secondary existence that is defined in relation to the universal Man. Subversion of these roles, attempted movement from place to place, is met with intimidation and force. But the violence of oppression, spoken of so often in revolutionary works, constitutes not just the physical but also the temporal, because the division itself is an act of psychological violence. The delegation of a certain group to subservience and squalor degrades a person in the basest manner. Its a degradation that permeates the soul. Fanon himself was a psychologist, who saw firsthand the mental havoc that French colonialism had wreaked on his patients. He describes this as a sort of muscular tension:
In the colonial world, the colonized's affectivity is kept on edge like a running sore flinching from a caustic agent. And the psyche retracts, is obliterated, and finds an outlet through muscular spasms that have caused many an expert to classify the colonized as hysterical.3
Here we come to a particularly important truth, that continual subjugation brews anger and despair. These emotions, often unconsciously, are channeled away from the guilty parties and toward the victims themselves. This is manifest in psychosis and suicidality among oppressed groups, who see no way out, and so retreat inward. As Fanon points out, these actions are weaponized as evidence of a groups mental inferiority, and so of the justice and naturalness
1 Fanon 4
2 Beauvoir
3 Fanon 19
of their oppression. The phenomenon of female hysteria is particularly well-documented, being a point of extreme fascination for psychoanalysts, and also for the general public. Of these
female-hysterics, french feminist Catherine Clment, in her 1975 essay The Guilty One, says the following:
These women, to escape the misfortune of their economic and familial exploitation, chose to suffer spectacularly before an audience of men: it is an attack of spectacle, a crisis of suffering. And the attack is also a festival, a celebration of their guilt used as a weapon, a story of seduction. All that, within the family.4
What Clment points to here is that women are ingratiated with men through the familial structure. Thus, for them, muscular spasms are but another act of performance in the theater of their own oppression. The voyeuristic consumption of female suffering is omnipresent, it is the glass wall that drives through a home, separating a mans place from a womans place. Likewise, the desperate cries of the colonized are used as a marker between civilized and uncivilized, between human and subhuman. Even the oppressed subjects battered psyche is leveraged against them by their oppressors.
In the realms of mysticism and magic, we find another outlet for the angst of a disempowered population. Fanon refers to voodoo and dance as examples of this, during which the most brutal aggressiveness and impulsive violence are channeled, transformed, and spirited away.5 So too does religion and superstition rise, wherein new, familiar evils are invented so as to distract from the real, and more unwieldy evil of colonialism. Among women, we see a similar, though slightly different move toward the supernatural. Many women find themselves comforted by the concept of a divine feminine. Women feel themselves at one with their
4 Clment 10
5 Fanon 19
purpose and in control of their sexuality and lives by virtue of their acknowledgment and embrace of some sort of preordained, feminine purpose. A woman commodifies herself to avoid facing the terrifying reality of her situation  in Beauvoirs words, she succumbs to the temptation to forgo liberty and become a thing.6 This thing, a divine woman, is, in equal measure as the superstition of African nations that Fanon describes, a fiction. But fiction is comforting, Fanon affirms.
In scaring me, the atmosphere of myths and magic operates like an undeniable reality. In terrifying me, it incorporates me into the traditions and history of my land and ethnic group, but at the same time I am reassured and granted a civil status, an identification. [...] Zombies, believe me, are more terrifying than colonists. And the problem now is not whether to fall in line with the armor-plated world of colonialism, but to think twice before urinating, spitting, or going out in the dark.7
These practices are not subversive, they are outlets, side roads for frustrations that cannot be fully realized without the complete disruption of the social fabric that produced them. Liberation necessitates the shedding of these fictions, say Fanon and Beauvoir. The retributive violence among the people needs to be redirected away from the emotional outlet of myth, toward the perpetrators themselves. This is the only path toward freedom. The only way out is through. As for the remnants of these invented identities, there is no place for them after and during the revolutionary period. After all, says Fanon, [w]ith his back to the wall, the knife at his throat, or to be more exact the electrode on his genitals, the colonized subject is bound to stop telling stories.8 But the issue is perhaps not so easily resolved. How can one turn to their
self-proclaimed comrades, their brothers in arms, and tell them that the very basis of their
6 Beauvoir
7 Fanon 19
8 Fanon 20
identities must be destroyed? Can you truly tell someone their traditions, their only reprieve, are weapons of their own oppression? Is it fair to ask someone, to ask yourself, to eradicate the only thing that has kept you sane?
When we strip ourselves of the comfortable fictions we shroud ourselves in, we are made to face the abyss before us. According to Sartre, it is only within this abyss that we can find freedom, [f]or if indeed existence precedes essence, one will never be able to explain ones action by reference to a given and specific human nature; in other words, there is no determinism  man is free, man is freedom.9If existence precedes essence, personhood precedes womanhood, and so too does it precede the racial and economic categories we, both oppressed and oppressors, use to define ourselves. This is an uncomfortable reality. The act of revolution is then to ceaselessly and violently seek equality for a group, only to realize that that group doesnt exist. It is not just the mystical tenants of voodoo or divine feminine sexuality that are false, but all categorization. There were no natives before there were foreign invaders. Similarly, there were no women before there was the universal Man. Simone de Beauvoir grapples with this fact: What is a woman?10 she asks, what is she if not not man? The truth is that the only reality is the physical reality of oppression. In the words of Fanon, the only truth is what hastens the dislocation of the [...] regime. Within oppressive structures, there is no truthful behavior. And good is quite simply what hurts [the oppressors] most.11 The psychological damage inflicted by oppression is so pervasive that it continues to permeate identity formation for as long as we allow it to. It tells us who we are, what we are, where we come from, and where were going.
The mechanisms we devise to cope with this, too, are constrictive fictions based on the canon that has been forcefully instilled in us. As in Sartre, in order to free ourselves from these
9 Sartre
10 Beauvoir
11 Fanon 14
temporal chains, it is imperative that we recognize our existence is defined only by our freedom, and nothing else. Hence, the struggle for liberation necessitates an internal revolution of identity, one that is just as violent as a physical revolution. In fact, the overthrow of an oppressive structure is not just violent but nauseating. It is stomach-turning, uncomfortable, abject, and disgusting to discover that what you have been taught, what you have embraced and found comfort in, what has cut you open and bled you dry, is a complete and utter fiction. What is even more disconcerting is to realize you dont know who you are without it. Revolution is terrifying. It rips the ground from beneath you: it bulldozes the City of Man, burns the Sector of the Colonized to the ground, and flattens a Womans Place. It makes the world empty: empty of all the voices that once told you everything about who you were. But in that emptiness is freedom, and only when we embrace that uncertain and unnerving darkness do we find that we are finally liberated.
Works Cited
Beauvoir, Simone de. Introduction. The Second Sex, by Beauvoir, 1949. Marxists.org, 2023, https://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/ethics/de-beauvoir/2nd-sex/introduction.htm.
Cixous, Hlne, and Catherine Clment. The Newly Born Woman. University of Minnesota Press, 1986.
Fanon, Frantz. On Violence. The Wretched of the Earth. Translated by Richard Philcox. Grove Press, 1961. Internet Archive, 23 Feb 2020, https://archive.org/details/thewretchedoftheearth/The%20wretched%20of%20the%20eart h%20%20%20/page/1/mode/2up.
Sartre, Jean-Paul. Existentialism Is a Humanism. Translated by Philip Mairet. World Publishing Company, 1956. Marxists.org, 2023, https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/sartre/works/exist/sartre.htm.Figure: joe biden
The United States is a country that is filled with turmoil, a country with two sides of an argument that neither two can fully ever agree on. It is for this reason that we see constant issues where someone is always not happy with a decision, sometimes even coming to violence, extreme instances of protesting, and vandalization just to prove that point. America being a two party democracy, this is one of its flaws on its own, but working with what we have These problems have a solution, one which can be solved through two simple theories. Uniting people under one issue, and appealing to what both parties want, even with your own agenda.
If we are to assume you do not plan on changing your inferior ways of a democracy to a great republic, the first  step to doing that is uniting people under one issue. A prince, or in this case a president needs control over his people, but that cannot be done when two parties represent two sides to many issues. The same can be said with presidents, its idiotic having a president have a label on him that represents a party that is conflicted with half of the population. This is why a president needs to unite everyone over a common issue, and then silence the people that still disagree with you by alienating them from the public. I judge those princes capable of standing on their own who have an abundance of men or of money, so that they can put together a sufficient army and fight a battle in the field against anyone who comes to attack them.  This issue can be so much as an enemy, to which you can show with your military power that you, and you alone can lead everyone to certain victory, thus giving everyone a reason to root for you, for it's because of you only that you stomped this enemy down that threatened your nation. It's important to note that this enemy does not have to exist too, there can be fabricated attacks from a made up group in a foreign country. While there will still be strife between the two parties for their own inconsequential problems, you will still have the comfort knowing both parties support you in totality, because at the end of the day nothing matters then your own image and position in state.
This leads me into my second point, appealing to both parties to further your trust with the people in your nation. In order to keep people from rebelling, and minimizing the amount of conspirators in your country, deal with hot topic issues present in the country that are causing strife. Take crime rates and deaths for example, the way in which it is dealt with is a constant issue of turmoil between people of different parties, and to minimize that it will take some steps. Briefly make this issue seemingly your top priority, patrol both rich and poor neighborhoods equally so the people feel there is no discrimination. Secondly, instate fear through force. If people see police constantly patrolling the streets, the likelihood of rebellion decreases because to them you aren't trying to intimidate everyone, youre helping the crime rate go down. This is a simple matter of masking your actual goal. You will be inciting fear, but its hidden behind this original goal you said you would deal with. a wise prince (president) should establish himself on that which is in his own control and not in that of others; he must endeavor only to avoid hatred, as is noted. They cannot hate you if you are solving the very issue they complained about. However in this world, there will always be conspirators. The fact that you are doing everything to help these issues there is nothing but fear, jealousy, prospect of punishment to terrify him; but on the side of the prince there is the majesty of the principality, the laws, the protection of friends and the state to defend him. You will have the trust of the people and those around you, so these conspirators can simply be alienated from the rest.
The road to a successful two party democracy is a rough one, as these parties only get us further from unity by having specific ideals behind each party that are unique to the two. That is why as a ruler it takes someone who is willing to use fear over issues to unite the two, by finding at least one instance of common ground. As long as both parties think you are doing something right, you are doing the right thing as a leader and will absolutely maintain power, because while they are having their strife in the background, they all have some security in that you, regardless of believes, are protecting this great nation. 
Your Royal Highness Queen Mary, 
    Firstly, I would like to state that, while you are under no obligation to give this letter a second glance, I hope to offer up some of the vast knowledge Ive collected about one ruling a kingdom and, subsequently, how one should act when they have risen to power. If youd be so accepting of my words, I hope to both commend your rule as well as share some critiques. If you wish to hear them, they are as follows, in chronological order of your life;
1.I commend your ability to overcome your father, King Henry VIIIs, claim of your illegitimacy, and seize the throne despite said obstruction. 
While, as I point out in my writing, The Prince, hereditary states are easier to hold (for citizens are more agreeable to families that have always held power), your position is unique as your Catholic views differ greatly from those of your forefathers, which puts you in no better a position than a new, non-hereditary, ruler. To make matters worse, your birth was ruled illegitimate by King Henry VIII, challenging your ability to inherit the throne after your cousins death. Yet, by the will of the English citizens, you were chosen to succeed King Edwards and seized the throne from the newly-crowned Lady Jane Gray. Your ability to, initially, gain so much popularity amongst the common people points only to your success in leading up to this point, for, while you were at odds with the monarchy, you had the public on your side. 
2.In relation to this last point, I commend your choice to hide your Catholic views from the people. 
Your rise to power at the will of the people would have been near impossible had they, a majority Protestant society, known of your devout Popish beliefs. Your decision to hide your religion allowed you to infiltrate both their hearts and, consequently, their castle when you revealed your true intentions, which we shall address later. As a monarch, it is of the utmost importance to appear a certain way, even if your true nature is the opposite. One should [1]appear merciful, faithful, humane, religious, upright, and to be so, but with a mind so framed that should you require not to be so, you may be able and know how to change to the opposite. Ones outward appearance and behavior are crucial in gaining popularity amongst the common people, and ones true intentions, seeing if theyre against the will of the people, should be hidden.
3.If I may offer criticism of the persecution and execution of Protestant heretics throughout your rule. 
This issue of persecution is a difficult one to face as a ruler, as the killings themselves are not the issue, but rather the way one goes about it. [2]A ruler ought to inspire fear in such a way that, if he does not win love, he avoids hatred; because he can endure very well being feared whilst he is not hated. However, your killings of Englands Protestants led your citizens to hate you and view you as nothing less than a tyrant. A ruler should never be viewed as a tyrant, for when your own people have turned against you it makes it that much easier for outside enemies to plant seeds of rebellion. As a general rule, [3]rulers ought to, in the first place, avoid being hated by everyone, and when they cannot compass this, they ought to endeavor with the utmost diligence to avoid the hatred of the most powerful. Yet, you started your rule as a scorned daughter in religious disagreement with your fathers before you. Given these circumstances, you only had the people on your side, yet you turned them against you. To avoid this hatred, you had, as I see it, two choices. The first is to truly attempt to annihilate all devotees of the Protestant religion throughout England, killing each and every one. While this would be a huge undertaking, it would have allowed you to start the country anew with a Catholic religious majority. The killing of some, but not all, Protestants allowed for the horror of your actions to spread until even those religiously aligned with you could not help but acknowledge your cruelty. Therefore, the other option, which I believe to be preferable, is to continue your guise of Protestantism, and slowly integrate Catholicism into your people and society. This choice allows for less hatred among the people, allowing room for certain cruelty when it is truly necessary. [4]A ruler, so long as he keeps his subjects united and loyal, ought not to mind the reproach of cruelty, yet you allowed religion to divide your country, and therefore any cruelty on your part would be against your advantage. In my opinion, your biggest mistake as a monarch was that you allowed your piety to become stronger than your will for a united country. 
With this advice, I hope you can now better reflect on your time as queen. 
Long Live Your Majesty,
         				 Machiavelli   
 
Bibliography 
Machiavelli, Nicolo. The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Prince, by Nicolo Machiavelli. Translated by W K Marriott, The Project Gutenberg , Mar. 1998, https://www.gutenberg.org/files/1232/1232-h/1232-h.htm.
Mary Tudor I, the Story Behind, Bloody Mary. Renaissance Figures, Weebly, https://gsarenaissancefigures.weebly.com/mary-tudor.html. 
Biography.com Editors. Mary Tudor Biography. Biography.com, A&E Networks Television, 2 Apr. 2014, https://www.biography.com/royalty/mary-tudor. 
Simons, Eric Norman. "Mary I". Encyclopedia Britannica, 14 Feb. 2023, https://www.britannica.com/biography/Mary-I.  
Lambert, Tim. Tyrants in History. Local Histories, 28 Feb. 2022, https://localhistories.org/tyrants-in-history/.  
 
 
------------------------------------------------------------
[1] The Prince, Chapter XVIII
[2] The Prince, Chapter XVII
[3] The Prince, Chapter XIX
[4] The Prince, Chapter XVIIA Letter to Kim Jong-un
Your country 
Dear Kim Jong-un:
	I see cracks in the seemingly unshakable state of your rule over the nation of North Korea. For decades, your family has maintained absolute power within the empire in which you reside. Despite the severe opposition of many major world superpowers, including the neighboring country, your hereditary rule over your subjects has proved impenetrable. By integrating your government and military into everything that happens within your borders, you have eliminated any possibility of thinking or actions that contrast with what you want. But despite the appearance of perfection, your recent actions reveal a flaw in your plan, a subtle note of instability that, if left unchecked, threatens the integrity of your leadership. If you wish to maintain supreme power, you must be extremely careful not to act in unnecessary ways that cause hatred toward yourself and threaten to destabilize the foundation upon which your rule is built. 
	Before we discuss your flaws, it is necessary to examine the profound and lasting success of your rule. Since North Koreas establishment, the security and obedience of your nation have not wavered. You have embraced Machiavellis principles by maintaining a government that snuffs out any chance of revolution through a formidable military. By building a society controlled and dictated entirely by you, your citizens remain compliant because they are taught to adore North Korea and fear every other nation. Through periodic shows of military power and unwavering enforcement of laws that restrict anything that does not fit your needs, you have ensured that the people fear you. In the sense that it is much safer to be feared than loved, when, of the two, either must be dispensed with, (Machiavelli chapter 17), your citizens both fear and love you because of the military society you maintain. Your ability to maintain the appearance of being a perfect and caring ruler while using the military to be feared has enabled your regime to remain supreme, thus creating a solid foundation upon which your power stands.
	That said, you have become sloppy in the ways that you exert your military power to dispel opposition. Supreme leaders such as yourself must indeed eliminate those that pose a threat to their leadership; these actions are beneficial when they are applied at one blow and are necessary to ones security, and that are not persisted in afterwards unless they can be turned to the advantage of the subjects (Machiavelli chapter 8). You have repeatedly violated this rule in recent years, opting for glamorous shows of power that are counterproductive to maintaining your reputation. For example, the murders of prominent members of your family were unnecessary and dangerous. In executing your brother in a different country, you greatly increased international criticism and hatred towards your rule, increasing the threat of outside attack and decreasing the chance of economic interaction. By having dogs brutally eat your uncle alive, you directly attacked the idea that your family is sacred, perfect, and happy. You must remember that when it is necessary for [a ruler] to proceed against the life of someone, he must do it on proper justification and for manifest cause (Machiavelli chapter 17). But the most dangerous habit of all is your repeated and regular nuclear threats to nations across the world. Although these do help reinforce the image of power among your citizens, the frequent nature of the threats causes the rest of the world to fear you less and makes it certain that your empire can never have a chance of expanding, trading, or interacting with anyone outside the borders of North Korea. The actions and killings described above are not only unnecessary but risk destroying the illusion of greatness that your citizens see and increasing the risk of invasion or suppression by other nations.
	If you, Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un, wish to ensure the continued power and control of the Kim Dynasty, you must be extremely vigilant not to act in ways that risk shattering the intricate illusion of prosperity that you have built around your country. For decades, your family has enjoyed total control over the people of North Korea, reaping the benefits derived from an obedient population. You have achieved said obedience through the brute force method of force, propaganda, and fear; all of which have resulted in a successful Machiavellian hereditary principality. However, there is one fundamental problem with your rule: you have forgotten that it cannot be called talent to slay fellow-citizens, to deceive friends, to be without faith, without mercy, without religion; such methods may gain empire, but not glory (Machiavelli chapter 8). I am writing this letter to warn you: your supreme rule may be nothing but a massive, highly armed glass onion that risks being peeled back and shattered by your erratic and risky behavior.
Outline: 
1.Body 2: Recent dangerous actions
a.Killing of family, silencing/killing of powerful subjects
i.See where its coming from, but ____
b.Committed actions all at once or no?
2.Body 3: Appearance of success is false
a.Though you may maintain relative peace and compliance through military, your empire is an illusion.
b.Yet it cannot be called talent to slay fellow-citizens, to deceive friends, to be without faith, without mercy, without religion; such methods may gain empire, but not glory.
c.Show of military power and fake unity prevent invasion, but in reality empire is all but stagnant. Majority of citizens live in miserable living conditions. Uprising prevented only through complete deprivation of any non-state sanctioned information. 
d.Missile tests and closed off country ensure that nearby superpowers will never cooperate with you: you are stuck in your country in terms of area, trade, economy and everything else. 
e.This all creates an illusion of success; echo chamber of need for glory hides teh fact that no glory exists. 
3.Conclusion
a.Restate thesis: impressive hold on empire, but illusion of glory hides potential for great disaster
b.Summarize success, failure
c.
Military success of keeping army of his own (not mercenaries) and fortifying to scare neighbors into compliance
When all the actions of the duke are recalled, I do not know how to blame him, but rather it appears to be, as I have said, that I ought to offer him for imitation to all those who, by the fortune or the arms of others, are raised to government. Because he, having a lofty spirit and far-reaching aims, could not have regulated his conduct otherwise, and only the shortness of the life of Alexander and his own sickness frustrated his designs. Therefore, he who considers it necessary to secure himself in his new principality, to win friends, to overcome either by force or fraud, to make himself beloved and feared by the people, to be followed and revered by the soldiers, to exterminate those who have power or reason to hurt him, to change the old order of things for new, to be severe and gracious, magnanimous and liberal, to destroy a disloyal soldiery and to create new, to maintain friendship with kings and princes in such a way that they must help him with zeal and offend with caution, cannot find a more lively example than the actions of this man. Chapter 7
Therefore, he who considers the actions and the genius of this man will see nothing, or little, which can be attributed to fortune, inasmuch as he attained pre-eminence, as is shown above, not by the favour of any one, but step by step in the military profession, which steps were gained with a thousand troubles and perils, and were afterwards boldly held by him with many hazardous dangers. Yet it cannot be called talent to slay fellow-citizens, to deceive friends, to be without faith, without mercy, without religion; such methods may gain empire, but not glory. Still, if the courage of Agathocles in entering into and extricating himself from dangers be considered, together with his greatness of mind in enduring and overcoming hardships, it cannot be seen why he should be esteemed less than the most notable captain. Nevertheless, his barbarous cruelty and inhumanity with infinite wickedness do not permit him to be celebrated among the most excellent men. What he achieved cannot be attributed either to fortune or genius. Chapter 8
Some may wonder how it can happen that Agathocles, and his like, after infinite treacheries and cruelties, should live for long secure in his country, and defend himself from external enemies, and never be conspired against by his own citizens; seeing that many others, by means of cruelty, have never been able even in peaceful times to hold the state, still less in the doubtful times of war. I believe that this follows from severities[2] being badly or properly used. Those may be called properly used, if of evil it is possible to speak well, that are applied at one blow and are necessary to ones security, and that are not persisted in afterwards unless they can be turned to the advantage of the subjects. The badly employed are those which, notwithstanding they may be few in the commencement, multiply with time rather than decrease. Those who practise the first system are able, by aid of God or man, to mitigate in some degree their rule, as Agathocles did. It is impossible for those who follow the other to maintain themselves.
[2] Mr Burd suggests that this word probably comes near the modern equivalent of Machiavellis thought when he speaks of crudelta than the more obvious cruelties.
Hence it is to be remarked that, in seizing a state, the usurper ought to examine closely into all those injuries which it is necessary for him to inflict, and to do them all at one stroke so as not to have to repeat them daily; and thus by not unsettling men he will be able to reassure them, and win them to himself by benefits. He who does otherwise, either from timidity or evil advice, is always compelled to keep the knife in his hand; neither can he rely on his subjects, nor can they attach themselves to him, owing to their continued and repeated wrongs. For injuries ought to be done all at one time, so that, being tasted less, they offend less; benefits ought to be given little by little, so that the flavour of them may last longer.
And above all things, a prince ought to live amongst his people in such a way that no unexpected circumstances, whether of good or evil, shall make him change; because if the necessity for this comes in troubled times, you are too late for harsh measures; and mild ones will not help you, for they will be considered as forced from you, and no one will be under any obligation to you for them. Chapter 8
Upon this a question arises: whether it be better to be loved than feared or feared than loved? It may be answered that one should wish to be both, but, because it is difficult to unite them in one person, it is much safer to be feared than loved, when, of the two, either must be dispensed with.  Chapter 17
Nevertheless a prince ought to inspire fear in such a way that, if he does not win love, he avoids hatred; because he can endure very well being feared whilst he is not hated, which will always be as long as he abstains from the property of his citizens and subjects and from their women. But when it is necessary for him to proceed against the life of someone, he must do it on proper justification and for manifest cause, but above all things he must keep his hands off the property of others, because men more quickly forget the death of their father than the loss of their patrimony. Chapter 17
Therefore it is unnecessary for a prince to have all the good qualities I have enumerated, but it is very necessary to appear to have them. And I shall dare to say this also, that to have them and always to observe them is injurious, and that to appear to have them is useful; to appear merciful, faithful, humane, religious, upright, and to be so, but with a mind so framed that should you require not to be so, you may be able and know how to change to the opposite. Chapter 18
For this reason a prince ought to take care that he never lets anything slip from his lips that is not replete with the above-named five qualities, that he may appear to him who sees and hears him altogether merciful, faithful, humane, upright, and religious. Chapter 18

Morning Edition
Today, Cloudy with a 87% chance of rain
VOL. CLXII . . No. 56,146	ST. PETERSBURG, MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1860
Special Re-print: On Crime by R. Raskolnikov
AN EXTRAORDINARY GLIMPSE INTO CRIME
BY RODION ROMANOVICH RASKOLNIKOV

Editor in Chief: Ashley Tong
the other hand, it is the obligation of extraordinary people to change the world, without regard to how many people they hurt, for their actions are for the betterment of the greater good.
As part of St. Petersburgs police force and an upstanding citizen, I simply cannot condone this abhorrent theory. I am a firm believer that ones intelligence does not need to be blared out from the rooftops. If someone is indeed of extraordinary cleverness,  they  should  utilize  their  inherent
We live in a world where our actions,
both big and small, undoubtedly touch and affect the lives of others for years to come. Sometimes, that comes in the form of a kind-hearted person rescuing a stranger, enabling or at least adding to the possibility of that strangers future generations existence. Other times, actions that modern society would consider as crimes are committed. Based on societal expectations and common law, these so-called crimes are cruel and unnecessary. However, when committed by the right person, these crimes are not as terrible as they seem. Thus we present the question of how to determine whether ones actions are justified, if the ends are of more importance than the means, and if consequences should be suffered.
There are two types of people in this world. Most people are born ordinary, live ordinary lives, and die simply to fade away and be forgotten. However, an unusually small number of people are born, even strangely few, with a new idea, or who are capable of even uttering something new (288). These are the extraordinary. They are revolutionaries, fighters, geniuses, and prodigies. They are men of genius
 out of millions, and great geniuses, the culmination of humanity  perhaps only as a result of the passing of many thousands of millions of people across the earth (289). For them, death does not represent the end, for they will live on in the words, minds, and hearts of others for years and decades to come. They are immortal in their actions and eternal in their conceptions. The extraordinary prevails while the ordinary withers away.
The extraordinary are those who have ideas to contribute to the world. They are those who have the potential to truly make a difference. And it is because of this potential that the extraordinary person may be allowed to undertake actions that an ordinary person cannot. These actions can range anything from robbery to murder, for sometimes, extraordinary people must overstep moral boundaries for the sake of the greater good. And if some blood must be spilt so that one may impact the world for the better, then such crimes are no longer crimes, but necessary and needed. Napoleon slaughtered millions. And yet, no one can deny that he was one of the greatest men to step foot on this earth. And if the discoveries of Kepler and Newton could in no way have become known to people other than through the sacrifice of the lives of one, ten, a hundred, and so on, people who interfered with their discoveries or who were obstacles blocking their way, then Newton had the right, and was even obligated to eliminate those ten or a hundred people in order to make his discoveries known to all humanity (285). A brief peruse through history books will reveal that a majority of those benefactors and trailblazers of humanity were particularly horrible shredders of blood (185). In fact, it is improbable, and maybe even impossible, for an extraordinary person to exist without having perpetrated immoral actions, for it is the mark of an extraordinary person to break free from societal expectations and to carve a new path. By staying within the bounds of the rules, one is resigning themselves to ordinariness.
While the extraordinary are allowed and encouraged to commit crimes to further their respective missions, the ordinary cannot. This is because extraordinary people are able to see through their unethical deeds and concentrate on the end results.
The morality of what they are doing does not affect
them because extraordinariness powers the ability to ignore the conscience. This is not a talent that the ordinary possess; their sense of righteousness and virtue does not permit that, which is why for an ordinary person, the act of committing a crime is always accompanied by illness (284). Ordinary people are inherently born with a drive for obedience. Any breaking of the rules will weigh so heavily on an ordinary person that the guilt for what they have done will eat them up from the inside. In many cases, there is even no need to punish transgressions from an ordinary person because they will willingly inflict punishment on themselves, some even going as far as turning themselves in, for the knowledge and remorse of their undertakings registers so strongly and painfully within.
Though human nature is diverse, the two distinct classifications of extraordinary and ordinary will persist. No matter how many crimes are committed or how many seemingly revolutionary initiatives are undertaken, it is impossible for a person who was born ordinary to become extraordinary.
Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov
In Response to On Crime
Police Detective Porfiry Petrovich volunteering at a local	St.	Petersburg	school	and	reading	to
  disadvantaged children.	
Police Detective Responds to Infamous Article
By Porfiry Petrovich
My Dear Readers,
I recently had the privilege of reading an article called On Crime in Periodical Discourses, written by a charming young law student in St. Petersburg: Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov. The articles main premise is that in society, there are those who are ordinary and those that are extraordinary. Ordinary people are to live a life of obedience in which they follow the law and stay away from anything unconventional. They are incapable of committing crimes without their moral conscience from torturing them afterwards. On
advantages for humanitarian efforts instead of exploiting it as a justification and excuse to perform moral atrocities. Though the article pushes that extraordinary people may need to commit crimes for the good of others, I urge Raskolnikov to picture our city of St. Petersburg when its citizens are running amok murdering each other for the sake of mutual benefit.
Regarding the writing of the article itself, I have in mind that greater accuracy is needed so to speak, more external distinctness (287). Omitted from the article is perhaps the most important question and answer required to make Raskolnikovs proposition even the slightest bit feasible: How do you know if someone is extraordinary? Im sure many people who have read Raskolnikovs article already fancy themselves to be among the extraordinary, for who among us in Holy Rus doesnt consider himself a Napoleon these days? (291-292). One cannot argue that it would be extremely difficult to differentiate between the true extraordinary and those who simply believe they are. Moreover, the article is written by someone who believes in this theory as if it has already been proven to be true. It seems to me that the author, Raskolnikov, believes that he himself is an extraordinary man uttering some new word (291).
As a police detective, I have aided in thousands of cases concerning a wide range of crimes and circumstances, which is why I believe Raskolnikovs theory of the extraordinary is fundamentally flawed because of one word: environment. The environment in which someone is raised can be the singular most defining factor to what sort of person they become. For example, in all my years of work, I have learned that a crime against a young girl can very, very often be explained by the environment (282). Similarly, it would be easy for someone to be extraordinary if their intellect was cultivated as a child and they left for adulthood with loving parents who would donate endless amounts of money and resources to make their childs far-fetched dreams come true. On the other hand, how could one dedicate time to taking those revolutionary initiatives that are the mark of an extraordinary person if theyre doing backbreaking work all day long just to provide for food, clothing, and a roof over their head?
Raskolnikovs article does not take into account lifes many factors that may determine if one is extraordinary or not. Moreover, it is, quite frankly, dangerous. It is horrifying how the article speaks to the sanctioning of bloodshed as a matter of conscience (289), and I absolutely condone that. You all should as well.
Porfiry Petrovich shaking hands with chief police clerk Zamtov after solving a difficult kidnapping case.
Monday 1860
Periodical Discourse
3 APRIL
The Benefit of Communes
Breaking away from societal expectations
I once knew a young woman, a girl really, whose identity I shall conceal in this letter. Because of certain family circumstances, she, as the oldest child, was sent out onto the streets with a yellow card. Despite doing this for her family, the poor girl was not able to live with them anymore  their landlady wouldnt allow it  and she had to move out. She now continues working as a prostitute while sending the money to her family and living a secluded life in shame. But though she is scorned here, she will be respected and valued in my commune.1 That is the beautiful end waiting for the thousands more devastating souls like hers throughout St. Petersburg.
Life in a commune is without prejudice,
and there is no job too disgraceful or useless. Those in the commune do not judge based on imsy societal stereotypes, but instead, see everything and everyone as valuable in their own way. For those who feel as though their future has been restricted and chosen for them, please consider starting up a commune with me! I promise that your life will be free and wholeheartedly yours. There will no longer be any more arbitrary and meaningless rules and expectations to abide by.
I am searching for like-minded educated and progressive fellows like me, men or women, and together, we can create a haven for many. Please contact me if any of this sounds interesting to you and if you wish to take part.
Andrey Semyonych Lebezyatnikov
Classified Ads
Semyon Zakharych Marmeladov, former clerk, dies after tragic
Sofia Semyonovma Marmeladov posing for a picture at Semyon Marmeladovs funeral wake.
Former civil servants eldest child speaks out
My father, Semyon Zakharych Marmeladov, unfortunately passed away recently after a freak catastrophe on the streets of St. Petersburg. He had accidentally been run over by a horse-drawn carriage and lost a lot of blood. My dear father held on for as long as he could before he finally passed away at home, surrounded by friends and family.5
Those who interacted with him in the later stages of his life will describe him negatively as a drunk and a thief. Though it is true that due to the hardships of life, he turned to squandering money in the taverns, no one can deny the love he had for his family. My father leaves behind his wife, Katerina Ivanovna and my three younger siblings: Polina, Lenya, and Kolya.
Growing up, there was no money for me to go to school. Yet, my father tried his best to educate me and taught me a love for literature. Together, we learned about figures like the great Persian ruler, Cyrus the Great, and read texts such as Physiology of Everyday Life by George Lewes.6 Though he was sometimes not an honest and hardworking man, I know in my heart that he did not deserve the fate that was thrust upon him.
The one comfort I have right now is that God will forgive my fathers sins and he will live in eternal peace. Upon his deathbed, my father called out to me asking for my forgiveness and I gave it to him graciously. He repented his sins in front of a priest with remorse and offered himself to our merciful God. For that, I believe he is washed clean and can reside with our Almighty happy and content. This is the ultimate end and I wholeheartedly believe that my loving father has achieved it.
Seeking a Russian tran3s5lator who has an intermediate to advanced level of German proficiency to translate around 40 pages of Are Wo3m6en Human Beings? 2 Intended to be published as a politically progressive and useful reference regarding womens rights. Will receive three rubles at the beginning and another three rubles upon full completion of translating the second part of the booklet. A satisfactory job translating Are Women Human Beings may lead to a second appointment as translator for a piece on whales and parts of the second section of Confessions by Jean-Jacques Rousseau. 3 If interested, please contact Dmitri Prokovich Razumikhin who can be found on the fifth floor of the building on Vasilievsky Island near the bridge and Little Neva embankment. 4
MONDAY, 1860
Periodical Discourse
3 APRIL
1 Page 406 when Lebezyatnikov is talking about how Sonya will be more valued in a commune. In a commune, her role will change its present meaning; that which is foolish here will become clever there; that which is unnatural here, under present circumstances, will become completely natural there (406).
2 Page 124 when Razumikhin is asking for Raskolnikovs help in translating part of a German text. Well, how would you like to translate the second part of Are Women Human Beings? (124).
3 Page 124, the footnote about Jean-Jacques Rousseau's Confessions. After we finish this, well start translating a piece on whales, and then well publish the most boring scandalous sections of the second part of Confessions; someone told Kheruvimov that Rousseau is like our Radishchev (124).
4 Page 122, referring to where Razumikhin lives. He stopped suddenly when he emerged on the embankment of the Little Neva on Vasilievsky Island, near the bridge (122).
5 The policeman told him that the unfortunate man had been caught in the wheel and dragged along the road for some thirty paces (201).
6 Taken from page 19 when Marmeladov is talking about Sonyas education. About four years ago, I tried to read some geography and world history with her; but since I myself was weak in those areas and we had no suitable textbooks, and the books we did have . . . hmm . . . well, we dont even have those books now, all our reading ended then and there. We stopped at the Persian king Cyrus the Great. Then, once she was older, she read some books of romantic content as well as several others, given to her by Mr. Lebezyatnikov. One was Lewess Physiology. (19).
The Journal of St.
Petersburg
Editor-in-Chief: Camilo
Tamayo-Rousseau
VOL. XII. No. 46	ST. PETERSBURG, FRIDAY, JUNE 5, 1866
On Crime
What is crime? Crime is a violation of the moral principles described by the legal system.
These moral principles serve to keep the people behaved and maintain societal stability. Mere stability, however, is not always what is most desirable; society is about moving forward and making progressnot idling in the same place.2 So, to truly advance society, the system meant to hold it in a stable place cannot be blindly followed. The legal system only serves to keep us in a rut. To break out of the rut, the law must be overstepped.3
Not everyone, though, has the right to overstep. This right is reserved to only the few who have the natural gift or talent of uttering a new word.4 We can call such people who are capable of contributing something new extraordinary while the rest are ordinary. Ordinary people are just that: ordinary. The only reason they exist is to reproduceas this is really the only thing they can ever achieve.5 Nearly all ordinary people cannot accept this reality, though, and believe that they are more than material meant for reproduction; they sincerely believe that they are extraordinary. One might ask then, If ordinary people imagine themselves as extraordinary, wouldnt they overstep as if they were extraordinary? Well, ordinary people can never do anything more than a few silly and relatively insignificant crimes so there is nothing to worry about.
You see, this is because ordinary people have an inborn inclination to obey. They are so well behaved that theyll punish each other and even themselves for the smallest infractions6 (crime will always result in illness7). These people will never get far because they are obligated to be obedientthats their destiny. On the other hand, extraordinary people are not so repelled by crimes that are considered sinful or collosal. They can overstep the law without thinking twice. Im not saying that extraordinary people have to commit outrages.8 All I am saying is that extraordinary individuals have the right to do what is necessary to allow them to realize their potential of advancing
humanity. If, for example, one, ten, a hundred, etc. people interfere with a new discovery or are obstacles, someone who is extraordinary has the right to remove them. If it is necessary to rob people to achieve a greater good, then an extraordinary person has the right to do so.9 Of course, what I have said is not anything new. This has all been written thousands of times by philosophers10 who range from the nihilists of ancient Greece to current philosophers like Nietzche. As they have all said, the superiority of extraordinary people gives them the right to overstep for the betterment of everyone.
This conclusion becomes even more self-evident when we examine history and some of humanitys greatest pioneers and trailblazers. Take Napoleon, for example, who (to name only a few of his significant contributions) implemented the Napoleonic Code, transformed the education system, and reimagined how cities were organized. In his career of reformation, he of course did not hesitate to kill (there is a reason he is known as one of the most brilliant military commanders in history). He caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of soldiers because he saw that this was necessary for the greater good.11 Like Napoleon, many of the Lycurguses, Solons, and Mohammeds of humanity (who, for the sake of conciseness, I will not examine very closely) were horrible shedders of blood, yet they also have many highly significant contributions.12 So, it seems that truly great individuals are obligated to overstep the law because this is what is necessary to achieve anything great.
With crime being necessary for the greater good, it can be difficult to judge our actions. How do we know if a crime benefits society and what is a just punishment? Conventional moral standards completely fail at this task, as they do not allow for any consideration of the nuance I have described above. In fact, moral judgements are quite irrational. Morals are not grounded in reason, they are simply feelings about what is right and wrong. Instead of irrational judging using morality, actions

should be judged by how effectively they achieve the end goal of advancing humanity.
-	RR13
The Fallacy of the Ordinary and Extraordinary
Two months ago, a little article in Periodical Discourses caught my eye (I believe, forgive me if I am not recalling it correctly, it was called On Crime).1 The main argument is that some people are inherently superior to others. Ordinary people are obligated to be obedient while extraordinary people can . . . well, not just that they can, but they are obligated to overstep the law and may kill as they wish (so that they can advance humanity). This idea, Ill admit, is clever, but it is not clever enough, you see. Just keep reading and Ill tell you the whole truth.
First, Ill invite you to consider religion. If extraordinary people have the right to commit all sorts of colossal outrages, it seems that they also have the right to commit any sin that they desire. They are convinced that it is okay and good to sin. I dont know of any religions that like it when people sinin fact, I get the impression that most religions are quite the opposite. How can extraordinary individuals possibly believe in New Jerusalem or God or the raising of Lazarus?2 The idea of extraordinary people is fundamentally at odds with religion. Lets forget religion for a moment, though, and consider all of the people of Holy Russia who think that they themselves arent ordinary, that is, they think that their purpose is not solely to reproduce. Who doesnt think they can utter some sort of new word and contribute something to humanity?3 It seems to me that this article has the capacity to inspire a great number of ordinary people to do terrible things.	It
is an invitation for vain people (and we all have some sort of vanity, just in varying degrees) to become criminals and siners.
Thats even more awful than an official or legal sanction for these immoral things!4 And Im not just saying that this new theory is

awful because of all the victims it will hurt.	The perpetrators
themselves would, in my opinion, suffer the most. Perpetrators who we would consider ordinary, using the logic of this article, will beat themselves up completely for any oversteplikely to the point of delirium and insanity. What could we possibly do to repare their conscience?5 All of Russias exiles, prisons, and hard labor wouldnt suffice. The many consciences this articles new theory will destroy will cause unbearable suffering to many people across Russia in addition to the victims themselves. What this all revealsI hope you now understandis that this silly little article is thoroughly wrong.
Now let me finish with something quite playful and psychological. When the author of this article (who I should probably not name) first conceived of this new theory, could he possibly have thought he was uttering a new word and was therefore extraordinary? Could it be the case that he has alreadyin the name of some greater goodcommitted some sort of atrocity, like perhaps killing a pawnbroaker with an axe?6
-	Police Inspector Porfiry Petrovich
Love Yourself
Private property is foundational to society. It has existed throughout virtually every civilization across humanity.
When I say private property, Im not talking about land ownership or some kind of legal agreement. Im talking about property in its most primitive and natural form which is the idea that one owns the result of their labor. For example, if one picks an apple off of a tree, they own the appleit is all, really, quite logical and practical.1 Nowadays, when we do labor, we typically get paid with money, which is one form of property.
Biologically, humans will try to acquire as much property as they can so that they can live long and reproduce.2 This is the basic science of natural selection that has given humanity its success.
Societies have long recognized that they can take advantage of this instinctual desire to acquire. By
FRIDAY, 1866
Periodical Discourses
5 JUNE
rewarding its citizens with property, society incentivizes contributions to the collective good. Individuals get rewarded with money, a clever little invention, when they benefit others. Consequently, our individual contributions to society are measured by money and property.
This economic truth that has characterized human society tells us to pursue property for ourselves. By doing this, we dont just benefit ourselves as

individuals, we are helping everyone. In fact, it is better to look after ourselves most of all, as this is the most efficient way to do good. As the Russian saying goes, If you chase two hares, youll catch neither.3 The more people you try to help, the less cumulative good you will do. From loving ourselves alone, we contribute the most to general advancement.4
-	Petr Petrovich Luzhin
Obituary
Semyon Marmeladov of St. Petersburg, Russia passed away in the afternoon hours, March 2, 1866. Born on May 15, 1823, he was a civil servant before his unfortunate weakness (which was not his fault)1 brought him troubles. As his daughter, I have seen much more than his alcoholism. His heart was full of love and kindness. He was a devoted husband to Katerina Ivanovna and to all his kids.2
He would often express his remorse for the mistakes he has made and tried his best to make amends.
Marmeladov, who was full of apologies in his last moments, died in my arms saying,

Sonya! My daughter! Forgive me!3 Of course, if you are seeing this Marmeladov, I forgive you! And I am sure that God will forgive you too! I will make sure to pray for you every day in hopes that He will make your afterlife even better.
Although you are gone father, your legacy lives on in me. You are a reminder of the power of forgiveness and kindness, even through the many challenges we face in our lives. Rest in peace, dear father, I will always carry your memory in my heart.
-	Your daughter, Sonechka
Petr Petrovich Luzhin
On Human Connection
Our actions are guided by three parts of the soul: reason, appetite, and spirit.1 Reason is the rational part, appetite is responsible for our pursuit of pleasure and sensual desires, and spirit is what gives us courage and willpower. The healthy, harmonious soul must live with a balance of these three parts.
For much of a life, my appetite has taken over my soul. Like an illness, I continuously sinned, I hurt others, and, in doing this, I damaged myself most of all. I have lived a life so nasty, disgusting, and offensive that no words could possibly describe.1 But I am not telling you this to make you pity me.	It wasnt
until recently that I realized that I needed more than the superficial pleasures that my appetite made me addicted to. I was degrading my life and soul into something so meaningless and pointless. My existence brought no value to the world. Without reason and spirit, I wondered, was I really living or was I merely existing? The solution to this problem, I realized, was love2something capable of restoring harmony between all three parts of the soul. It is through the powerful force of
love and human connection that we are driven to seek out the things that are of the most importance. Without love, life is not worth living.3
-	Arkady Svidrigaylov
Arkady Svidrigaylov

Sonia Semyonova Marmeladov
FRIDAY, 1866
Periodical Discourses
5 JUNE
FOOTNOTES
On Crime
1 I sent [the article] to Weekly Discourses, not Periodical Discourses (283).
2 Crimes require the destruction
of the present order in the name of something better (286).
3 Everyone who is even
marginally capable of uttering some new word must [...] necessarily be criminals [...] Otherwise it would be difficult for them to break out of the rut (286).
4 Extraordinary people are those
who possess the gift or talent of uttering some new word in their milieu (286).
5 Ordinary people are material
serving solely for the purpose of reproducing the species (286). 6 [Y]ou insisted that the act of committing a crime is always accompanied by illness (284). 7 [T]hese people never get very
far [...] theyll beat themselves up because theyre so well behaved. Some will provide this service to others, and some will do it to themselves (288).
8 I dont insist in any way that
extraordinary people absolutely must and are always obligated to commit all sorts of outrages (285).
9 If the lives of one, ten, or a
hundred, and so on, people [interfere with] discoveries or [are] obstacles, an extraordinary individual has the right to kill anyone and everyone he pleased, or to rob people everyday at the market (285).
10 This has all been written and
read a thousand times (286).
11 Of course, they didnt hesitate even to shed blood, if that blood [...] would help them (285).
12 [T]he lawgivers and
trailblazers of humanity, beginning with the ancients, continuing with Lycurgus, the Solons, Mohammeds, Napoleons, and so forth, each and everyone one of them, were criminals (285).
13 I signed [the article] with only
my initials (284).
The Fallacy of the Ordinary and Extraordinary
1 your little article On Crime .
. . or whatever its called, I forgot its title, I cant recall it. Two months ago I had the pleasure of reading it in Periodical Discourses (283).
2 So, you still believe in New
Jerusalem? [...] Do you believe in God? [...] Do you believe in the raising of Lazarus (287)?
3 Well, come, come now, who
among us in Holy Rus doesnt consider himself a Napoleon these days (292)?
4 The sanctioning of bloodshed
as a matter of conscience; why, in my opinion, thats more terrible than an official or legal sanction to shed blood (289).
5 And what about his
conscience? What business is that of yours? Just so, out of human kindness (290).
6 this little idea of mine is so very
playful . . . and psychological. . . . Well then, when you were composing your little articlecould it possibly be the case, heh-heh, that you might also have considered yourself, even the tiniest bit, to be an extraordinary man uttering some new word, in the sense that youre using it. . . . Isnt that so? [...] And if so, then might you yourself have decided [...] to step over those obstacles? Say, for example, to kill and rob (291)?
Love Yourself
1 youre pleased, Avdotya Romanovna, to marry that practical, rational [...] efficient man (44-45)
2 Science tells us to love ourselves
first of all because everything on earth is based on personal interest (164)
3 If you chase two hares, youll
catch neither (164).
4 in acquiring solely and exclusively for myself, Im also acquiring for all (164)
On Human Connection
1 they enveloped him with a fiery and shameless look, they beckoned him, laughing. . . .
There was something infinitely disgusting and offensive in that laughter, in those eyes, in all the nastiness in the childs face (560). 2 he was able to figure out that she was an unloved child [...] He picked her up, carried her into his room, sat her on the bed, and began to undress her (559).
Svidrigailov feels bad for the girl and decides to give her the love that she never got. This shows a desire for human connection.
3 After Dunya tells Svidrigailov she
cant ever love him, A moment of terrible, mute struggle transpired in Svidrigaylovs soul [...] A strange smile distorted his face, a pitiful, sad, weak smile, one of desperation (546-547). Dunya makes him give up on his struggle and desperation for love and connection. Without Dunya and love, he realizes his life isnt worth living.
Love Yourself
1 it was afterward, when I lost my job, which wasnt my fault, but it happened because of the changes in the department that I turned to drink! (18).
2 Since that evening, when I
learned how devoted he was to you all, and especially how he respected and loved you, Katerina Ivanovna, in spite of his unfortunate weakness (205).
3 Sonya! My daughter! Forgive
me! (205).

No. 20-1199
In The
Supreme Court of the United States
STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC.,
Petitioner,
v.
PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Respondent.
On Writ of Certiorari to
the United States Supreme Court
BRIEF FOR PETITIONER
January 18, 2023	Counsel for Petitioner
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
TABLE       OF      AUTHORITIES ARGUMENT	1
I.HARVARDS USE OF RACE IS	1
HARMFUL FOR MINORITIES
II.DISCRIMINATION AGAINST ASIAN	3
AMERICANS
III.HARVARD VIOLATES STRICT SCRUTINY	4
CONCLUSION	7
APPENDIX	8
Cases:

TABLE OF AUTHORITIES
Page
Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Pea	5
City of Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co.	5, 7
Grutter v. Bollinger	1, 5, 6
Gratz v. Bollinger	5, 6
Metro Broadcasting v. FCC.	2, 7
Parents Involved in Community	passim
Schools v. Seattle School Dist. No. 1
Regents of Univ. of California.	2, 4, 6
v. Bakke
Rice v. Cayetano.	7
Shaw v. Reno.	7
Wygant v. Jackson Board of Education.	5
Other Sources:
SFFA Brief Nos. 20-1199 & 21-7.	2, 3, 4
Time Interview Edward Blum on.	2
His Long Quest to End
Race-Conscious College Admissions
ARGUMENT
I.Harvards Use of Race is Harmful For Minorities
Frederick Douglass once said, The American people have always been anxious to know what they shall do with us . . . . I have had but one answer from the beginning. Do nothing with us! Your doing with us has already played the mischief with us. Do nothing with us! If the apples will not remain on the tree of their own strength, if they are worm-eaten at the core, if they are early ripe and disposed to fall, let them fall! .
. . And if the negro cannot stand on his own legs, let him fall also. All I ask is, give him a chance to stand on his own legs! Let him alone! . . . Your interference is doing him positive injury (Grutter v. Bollinger Thomas concurring).
The practice of affirmative action has long been used as an excuse to further a schools interest in increasing the diversity of the student body. Harvard Universitys usage of affirmative action, along with many colleges and universities across the nation, has become discriminatory, limiting, and frankly, ineffective over the years.
20 years ago, the Supreme Court decided on Grutter. In the case itself, the Court stressed the importance of keeping race-conscious admissions practices  affirmative action  as short-term as possible. The Court takes the Law School at its word that it would like nothing better than to find a race-neutral admissions formula and will terminate its use of racial preferences as soon as practicable. The Court expects that 25 years from now, the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary to further the interest approved today. (Grutter). It is almost 25 years since this decision was passed, and its clear that the efficacy of affirmative action admissions procedures has deteriorated. Moreover, negative effects of affirmative action have been and are being observed.
Racial classifications and race-conscious admissions policies do more harm than good, especially for the minorities it claims to protect and assist. As Mr. Justice Powell concludes, Racial and ethnic classifications of any sort are inherently suspect and call for the most exacting judicial scrutiny. (Regents of Univ. of California v. Bakke). Supporters of racial classifications argue that its practices supposedly help to counteract racial discrimination. And yet, they fail to realize that what they themselves are supporting is discriminating and classifying on the basis of race. As Chief Justice Roberts put it, The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race. (Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School Dist. No. 1).
We are a Nation not of black and white alone, but one teeming with divergent communities knitted together by various traditions and carried forth, above all, by individuals. (Metro Broadcasting v. FCC). Affirmative action policies harm minorities, especially under-represented minorities, including by bringing doubts as to whether people of certain races belong and if they are not deserving of their place and by prioritizing one racial or ethnic group over another without a rational reason. To put things into perspective, at Harvard, for 45% of all admitted African American and Hispanic Applicants, race was the determinative factor (SFFA Brief).
There is no doubt that diversity, including racial diversity, is important to an incoming class of students. Yet, diversity is greater than the color of ones skin. As Ed Blum, the President of Students for Fair Admissions, states, African Americans are not interchangeable with one another. Whites are not interchangeable. Each individual should be judged as an individual, not as a representative of his or her racial or ethnic population (Time Interview). Our focus on achieving racial diversity has blinded us of the true diversity of the individual. Who is to say that a wealthy Latino student who
is a product of prep schools is more deserving of a place at a higher-level institution such as Harvard compared to a low-income child of Chinese immigrants living in Queens? Asians are not just one group made up of individuals who share the same cultural values and experiences. The experience of a student of Cambodian descent will inherently be different from a student with Korean parents. And why is a white child from rural Appalachia not given the same advantage a black student with two physicians as parents would get from affirmative action? As the SFFA v Harvard case is reviewed, one central question must be kept in mind: Why have we, as a nation, overlooked the value in differing experiences, traits, and cultural backgrounds of all individuals, and rather, have placed our focus and efforts into classifying students based on the color of their skin?
II.Discrimination Against Asian Americans
Harvard University has long since held a history of racial and ethnic classifications, and even quotas. In the 1920s and 30s, Harvard was disconcerted by the number of Jewish applicants and students, and sought to reduce that number quickly and quietly. Their solution was to create a new type of admissions system, one that is still in use today, where race was considered. In the previous 25 years, the Jewish student population at Harvard had increased from 7% to 25%. After the introduction of the new admissions policies of holistic review, that number dropped to below 15%.
SFFAs lawsuit against Harvard has unearthed evidence proving that the institutions race-conscious policies have actually disadvantaged and discriminated against Asian American applicants. One important fact to note is that the first written guidance Harvard provided to admissions officers on how to consider race when reviewing applications was given right before trial. The most startling data, however, has appeared regarding the disparities of the personal rating admissions officers give applicants. According to
Harvard, students who are reflective, insightful and/or dedicated should receive higher personal ratings as well. (SFFA Brief). Despite Asian American applicants having higher academic, extracurricular, and alumni interview scores, they are given the lowest personal rating scores.
The discrimination against Asian Americans can be further examined by looking at Harvards admit rates. Harvard arranges its applicants by an academic index where 10 is the highest and 1 is the lowest (see Figure 1 APPENDIX). To provide an example, an African American student in the 4th decile (fourth from the bottom) has a higher chance of being admitted than an Asian American student in the 10th decile (the highest).
Harvards race-conscious admissions policies have been negatively impacting minorities and discriminating against Asian American applicants for years.
III.Harvard Violates Strict Scrutiny
This case is concerned with the application of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964:
No person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
Since Harvard receives federal funding, it is seemingly clear that Harvard cannot use race to help determine the admission of applications without violating Title VI. In Bakke, it was found that Title VI was actually just applying the 14th amendment to programs receiving federal funds. So, to find whether Harvard is violating Title VI, we must analyze whether Harvard is violating the 14th amendment with its use of racial classifications.
Due to Harvards use of racial classifications, strict scrutiny must be used to review whether the use of race is narrowly tailored to achieve a compelling interest (Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Pea). This analysis requires a most searching examination (Adarand) because racial classifications are simply too pernicious to permit any but the most exact connection between justification and classification (Gratz v. Bollinger).
There are two main interests that a university might have in using racial classifications for admissions. The first interest is a remedial interest. Here, a university would give an advantage to groups who have historically been discriminated against to remedy past discrimination. However, this interest has repeatedly failed to survive strict scrutiny:
[A]n effort to alleviate the effects of societal discrimination is not a compelling interest (City of Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co).
Societal discrimination, without more, is too amorphous a basis for imposing a racially classified remedy (Wygant v. Jackson Board of Education).
[A] governmental agencys interest in remedying societal discrimination, that is, discrimination not traceable to its own actions, cannot be deemed sufficiently compelling to pass constitutional muster (Wygant OConnor concurring opinion).
So, Harvards use of racial classifications in the admissions process cannot be justified by the desire to counteract this nations discriminatory past through remedy.
The other main interest Harvard might have in using racial classifications is the interest in having a diverse student body. Such an interest may only be pursued if the use of race is narrowly tailored to fit that interest. The diversity interest involves achieving exposure to widely diverse people, cultures,  ideas,  and  viewpoints  (Grutter).  Since  true
diversity encompasses so many different aspects of individuals, it would not make sense to make race a highly determinative and decisive factor (Parents Involved). Doing so would employ only a limited notion of diversity (Parents Involved) and would fail to have the highly individualized, holistic review that Grutter requires. To make sure Harvards use of race is narrowly tailored, this Court must ensure that the use of racial classifications [are] indeed part of a broader assessment of diversity, not simply an effort to achieve racial balance, which [...] would be patently unconstitutional (Parents Involved). Race must play a small role in the application process in order for it to be considered merely a 'plus in a particular applicants file (Bakke).
Harvards admissions process is not the highly individualized, holistic review it claims to be. Instead, racial classifications are relied on in a nonindividualzed, mechanical way (Gratz OConnor concurring). Harvard is obsessed with race. This obsession starts at the very beginning of the admissions process: recruiting. To be invited to apply to Harvard, white and Asian-American applicants must score at least 1310 on the PSAT while African-American and Hispanic students must score at least 1100. After applications are sent to Harvard, the racial makeup of the class is closely monitored, and admissions officers are regularly informed about the racial statistics of the class. The effects of this monitoring can be summarized by the consistency of the racial makeup of admitted classes (see Figure 1 APPENDIX).
The obsession Harvard has with engineering the racial composition of its classes can also be summarized by the large amount of time and money Harvard is spending on this court case. To Harvard, race isnt a plus factor, it is much closer to being the factor (Parents Involved). Disparities in Harvards overall personal rating summarizes how much of a
determinative factor it is in the admissions process (see
Figure 3 APPENDIX).
There are great costs associated with the use of the racial classification. Such classifications promote notions of racial inferiority and lead to a politics of racial hostility, (Croson), reinforce the belief, held by too many for too much of our history, that individuals should be judged by the color of their skin, (Shaw v. Reno), and endorse race-based reasoning and the conception of a Nation divided into racial blocs, thus contributing to an escalation of racial hostility and conflict (Metro Broadcasting). One of the principal reasons race is treated as a forbidden classification is that it demeans the dignity and worth of a person to be judged by ancestry instead of by his or her own merit and essential qualities (Rice v. Cayetano).
Upholding Harvards unconstitutional use of racial classifications and perpetuating the use of such classifications would have devastating impacts on this nation. It would effectively assur[e] that race will always be relevant in American life, and that the ultimate goal of eliminating entirely from governmental decision making such irrelevant factors as a human beings race will never be achieved (Parents Involved). Perpetuating the use of race will do no more than move us from separate but equal to unequal but benign' (Metro Broadcasting Kennedy dissent).
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, the Court should reverse judgement on this case.
Respectfully submitted,
Ashley Tong
Camilo Tamayo-Rousseau
January 18, 2023	Counsel for Petitioner
APPENDIX
Figure 1:
Figure 2:
Figure 3:
Alexandra Angell
Mari OMeara
E400 - Great Works of World Literature
23 November 2022
The Use of Tragedy
Aristotle defines the purpose of tragedy as effecting through pity and fear the purification of such emotions, a phenomenon known as catharsis (Aristotle 10). Although the evocation of pity and fear is required for a plot to be considered tragic, neither the main use of tragic plots nor the pleasure from them is based in catharsis. Tragic plots are instead used to communicate some lesson or moral to the audience. Aristotelian tragedy enforces societal status quo and standards by basing a characters hamartia on their hubris. 
In Aristotelian tragedy, hamartia is the error that a character performs that leads them to catastrophic outcomes. The characters who make these errors are referred to as tragic heroes and are described by Aristotle to be the sort of person who is not outstanding in moral excellence or justice, yet their change to bad fortune [...] is not due to any moral defect or depravity, but to an error of some kind (Aristotle 21). This means that the characters must be of some moral grace. Aristotle later elaborates on character creation and guides that, Since tragedy is an imitation of people better than we are, one should imitate good portrait-painters. In rendering the individual from, they paint people as they are, but make them better looking (Aristotle 25). We know from Aristotles description that tragic heroes must be naturally good and cannot error based on flaws of their nature but rather on erroneous beliefs they hold. These erroneous beliefs are the hubris, the insolent daring to overstep cultural codes, that leads characters to their erroneous actions. Similar to the connotations of pride, hubris comes with a level of self assurance in ones actions or possible actions, and a lack of care or judgment that leads to mistakes. We can see the process of hubris triggering hamartia in two classic tragedies written around 2000 years apart: Oedipus the King, written by Sophocles around 425 BCE, and The Tragedy of Macbeth, written by William Shakespeare around 1606 CE.
Aristotle references Sophocles' work, Oedipus the King, multiple times when giving examples of the best executed tragedies. With Oedipus the King as a standard for what a tragedy, and by extension, a tragic hero, should look like, we can observe the relationship of hubris and hamartia. Oedipus the King follows Oedipus, the king of Thebes, a man cursed to kill his father and sleep with his mother, as he discovers that he fulfilled the prophecy set out for him despite his efforts to evade it. A plague strikes Thebes, leading Oedipus to seek the root of the disease to deracinate it. Once finding that the cause is murder, Oedipus calls for the blind man blessed with Apollo's eyes to reveal the murderer. Acquiescing to the request, the seer reveals that Oedipus is the murderer, leading Oedipus to lash out and claim that the seer is faking his sight. He tells the seer, You can't hurt me or anyone else who sees the light you can never touch me (Sophocles 181). By committing such a taboo act as insulting the seer, Oedipus demonstrates that his faith has shifted away from the gods by which the seer is blessed.  Additionally, at the time the play is set, people believed that natural disasters were sent by gods when the leaders of the society were tainted. This means that Oedipus not only insults the seer, but he also refuses to believe the most likely story according to common belief, that he, the leader, is the cause of the plague. In his self assurance, he commits acts taboo in society, clearly demonstrating his hubris. 
Oedipus refusal to believe the seer leads him to investigate the murder further and discover that he killed his father and slept with his mother. On his search for truth, Oedipus reveals that Apollos prophet at Delphi told Oedipus of his fate but was spurned when he demanded more information (Sophocles 205). Despite the prophet rebuffing Oedipus, he continued to claim himself Apollos champion (Sophocles 167). Through the revelation of his previous encounter with another seer, we can see that Oedipus consistently gives little sway to prophets.  In the case of both the blind seer and the prophet at Delphi,  Oedipus denied the evidence provided by the speakers of Apollo that he is not cherished by the gods as he is cursed to a wicked fate. The hubris to deny the socially esteemed speakers led Oedipus on his path of hamartia to fulfill his fate. 
Oedipuss mother-wife, Jocasta, exhibits hubris in the same form, by denying prophets. She believes that Not a man on earth can see a day ahead, because she believes that she avoided the fate handed to her on Delphi to bear a son that would kill his father and marry her (Sophocles 215). Her belief that she could avoid her fate spurred her attempted infanticide, which caused Oedipus to be adopted into another kingdom.. With both Jocasta and Oedipus, the character triggers their fate in attempting to evade it. These attempts are caused by the belief that the fate set out for them by the gods is avoidable, but avoiding fate is impossible because such avoidance would indicate that the gods rules are not absolute. Oedipus and Jocasta believed that they may evade their fate despite the gods, and this hubris leads them to hamaritas that invoke their fate and their cosmic payback, nemesis.
Over 2000 years later, in William Shakespeares Macbeth, we can still see the causal relationship between hubris and hamartia. Macbeth is the tragedy of a Scottish lord and lady who are fed a prophecy that leads them to kill the king in order to gain dominion. Their wicked actions later lead them to insanity and ruin. Near the beginning of the play, Macbeth, along with his best friend and kinsman, Banquo, encounter three witches who prophesize that Macbeth will increase in rank to become King of Scotland. Macbeth is skeptical as witches are known to be ill intentioned, but when he is named Thane of Cawdor in addition to his Thane of Glamis, he begins to trust the witches. Banquo warns Macbeth against trusting witches though because oftentimes, to win us to our harm, / The instruments of darkness tell us truths, / Win us with honest trifles, to betray s (Shakespeare 1.3.135-137). Macbeth considers this warning yet is unconvinced that the witches are vile in their intentions toward him as their prophecies are so agreeable. Upon telling his wife, Lady Macbeth, of the fortune, she convinces him to kill the king for his fate. He fears the consequences though, to which she tells him to screw [his] courage to the sticking place, so that he may act on his desires without going mad (Shakespeare 1.7.70). By trusting in the witches, the couple shows their unjust self assurance, believing that they are out of wicked intentions purview. Their hubris lets Macbeth and Lady Macbeth act on the witches sayings and leads them to dominion, but also leads them down the path of insanity with each person killed. 
Insanity breeds paranoia, and Macbeth soon has nowhere to turn so is guided back to the witches. From the second interaction with the witches, he is told to Beware Macduff, but also  that none of woman born / Shall harm Macbeth (Shakespeare 4.1.81, 4.1.91-92). The first portion of prophecy leads Macbeth to slaughter the family of Macduff, giving Macduff a personal vendetta against him, and being the final strand in Lady Macbeths noose. Macbeth proceeds carelessly when the castle is under siege from a coup due to the second prophecy, allowing Macduff to kill him. Macbeth, trusting the witches despite the understanding that they are wicked and despite warnings from Banquo, shows great the hubris that leads him to his actions, and he is driven to insanity by his hamartia and eventually killed. 
 Aristotle states that the function of the poet is to say the kind of thing that would happen, i.e. what is possible in accordance with probability or necessity, and he describes poetry as more philosophical and more serious than history (Aristotle 16). This is because poetry aims at demonstrating universals, defined similarly to morals, rather than particulars, leading peotry to be more of an exercise in philosophical ideation rather than historical research. This aim of poetry to express universals, and the understanding that hubris, a breaking of social standards, is the cause of tragedy tells us that tragedy aims to express the importance of societal morals. The use of tragedy must not then be to deliver a new philosophical idea to an audience, but to reaffirm a preexisting one.
Works Cited
Aristotle. Poetics. Translated by Malcolm Heath. Penguin Books, 1996.
Shakespeare, William. Macbeth. Edited by Barbra A. Mowat and Paul Werstine. Simon and Schuster, 1992.
Sophocles. The Three Theban Plays: Antigone, Oedipus the King, Oedipus at Colonus. Translated by Robert Fagles. Penguin Books, 1984. 159-251
Key
Assertion
SignificanceGeorge Eloise Hosein
Mari OMeara
E400
25 April 2023 
Sylvestre Ramsarans Speech
You all know who I am and that I have always been devoutly religious and dedicated to my farm and family my whole life.[1] While this wake is unfortunately necessary, I dont understand everyone's morose attitude. This man, Francis Sancher, brought nothing positive into this world even before the two pregnancies of Mira and my own daughter Vilma. Before all of this drama, Francis Sancher had never even crossed my mind.[2] We are all much too busy and important to mope over this good for nothing man. We have real lives to get back to. Lets just make this go as quickly as possible and get along with our lives and the consequences of that dead fool. As for the girls, what compassion should they get? They knew what they were doing and got what they deserved.[3] Now they are only dragging others into the fray through association. They are like my diseased limes that I have here: weak and fickle but a good representation of our modern era.[4] What are we to do with girls such as these? Despite all the speculation and intrigue, I dont really care how this old man died. He was insignificant before everything, a drunk fool, and should die just as forgettably. Whatever the manner, whether natural or purposeful, justice has been served. I can only smile at justice sent from above, whether or not it is appropriate.[5] While I feel renewed by the end of this whole affair, I am still forced to deal with the aftermath through tradition and social mores. What am I going to do with Vilma and her child, my grandchild?[6] Perhaps it is better though for the child to be fatherless than born with a father as crazy as Francis Sacher. Honestly, I have never been very concerned with the lives of either of my daughters, alive or dead, I dont think I will start now.[7] If you all are really so curious, you can ask her mother, I have four other children to worry about. Life goes on even through death. I have so many other more pressing issues. I have to raise my sons and figure out what to do with my struggling farm.  There is no other man better to die than Francis Sacher, let us just be grateful it was him instead of us. This grief is pointless for the death of a man so insignificant yet somehow so bothersome. Save it for those who really matter. Now if youll all excuse me, allow me to take my lime and get back to the important people of this world.
------------------------------------------------------------
[1] It was to erase those images that Sylvestre had become a fervent Hindu (107). 
[2] Until Francis Sancher had seduced his daughter, Sylvestre Ramsaran had never given him a second thought (108-9).
[3] Not long after that Sylvestre had heard about Miras rape and, devoid of compassion, had said to himself deep down that by hanging around in gullies she had reaped what she had sown (110).
[4] Then a disease had attacked his experimental plantation of limes. New crops were as fragile and capricious as young girls (109).
[5]  At the thought of justice sent from heaven without having to go and fetch it, Sykcestre Ramsaran couldnt help smirking triumphantly, although it was hardly fitting at a deathbed (104).
[6] What was he going to do with the papaless child who would soon open its eyes to the world? What was he going to do with Vilmas ruined youth? (110).
[7] However, he had always considered Vilma as belonging to Rosa and had kept himself at a discreet distance from the circle of women (108). Nell Marcus Mari OMeara
E400 World Literature 16 December 2022
Tragic Womanhood: The Female Body in Oedipus The King and Macbeth
Jurisdiction over female reproduction is a primary mechanism of patriarchal control.
Considered vassals of the men in their life, women have historically been systematically1 denied ownership and control of their own bodies. For centuries, societal, religious, and social structures have dictated when, where, and how women get pregnant and give birth. This dynamic can be traced in the subtext of literature and art across history and is especially present in the heavily male-dominated genre of classical tragedy. In the time of Shakespeare equally as in the time of Sophocles, female bodies were subject to the whims and wants of the fathers and husbands of which they were considered property. From Oedipus of Sophocles Oedipus The King to Macbeth of Shakespeares Macbeth, male tragic heroes are not without female companions. But unlike their male counterparts, the women of Oedipus Rex and Macbeth, Jocasta and Lady Macbeth respectively, are uniquely defined by the use and commandeering of their bodies.
In Oedipus The King, Queen Jocasta and King Laius of Thebes are told by the Oracle of Delphi that they are destined to have a child that will kill his father and marry his mother. This child, Oedipus, is the tragic hero of the story. Oedipus' ultimate end, to kill his father and marry his mother, is certainly tragic. But what of Jocastas fate: to give birth to a child and later bear that childs children? What of her body, which is forced to house children of immoral and unnatural birth? Jocastas loss of bodily autonomy is essential to the tragic plot of Oedipus the King. Sophocles chides his protagonist for his hubris, his belief that he can overcome his fate.
1 Unit 5
As Creon, Jocastas brother and Oedipus' uncle, tells Oedipus: [y]ou will go too far. Its perfect justice: natures like yours are hardest on themselves (Sophocles 198). Stated simply, Oedipus tragic fate is a consequence of his own actions. But this message cannot be applied to Jocasta, Oedipus' mother and wife, whose body is thrown to the winds of fate. The perversion of Jocastas body cannot be framed as a natural consequence of her own hamartia, or fatal mistake, because her mistake arises not from hubris but from necessity. What is often recognized as Jocastas hubris, her attempt to kill her baby and thus escape her destiny to have his children, is based not on pride but on fear. As the shepherd, who took Oedipus to Mount Cithaeron on Jocastas orders, explains, [s]he was afraidfrightening prophecies (Sophocles 231). These frightening prophecies spelled a fate so horrible that she had no choice, for the sake of her own sanctity, for the sake of her own body, but to try and avoid them. Her attempt to kill her baby, Oedipus, is a desperate but futile endeavor to gain a kind of control she never really hadthat which pertains to her body and reproduction.
Lady Macbeth of Macbeth, equally desperate for bodily autonomy, attempts to gain control over her husband in order to control herself. She, as a woman, is entirely dependent on the actions and status of her husband, the overly ambitious and unstable Macbeth. As such, when she sees the opportunity for a better life as queen of Scotland in the form of the witches prophecy, she does everything she can to control Macbeths actions and thus improve her own life. In doing so, she subverts ideas of traditional relationship dynamics between men and women, and yet her actions remain firmly rooted in the reality that she is unable to control her destiny for herself. As Macbeth becomes more and more consumed by guilt, and as Lady Macbeths dream slips farther out of reach, she clamors to get him to act as she wishes. Be so much more the man Lady Macbeth tells Macbeth (Shakespeare 1.7.58). Of herself, she says I
have given suck, and know/How tender tis to love the babe that milks me./I would, while it was smiling in my face,/Have plucked my nipple from his boneless gums/And dashed the brains out (Shakespeare 1.7.62-66). This condemnation and subversion of femininity and reproduction is a theme in Shakespeares characterization of Lady Macbeth. In her belief, it is only through the denial of her femininity that she can achieve her ends. She states it resolutely:
[U]nsex me here,
And fill me from the crown to the toe top-full Of direct cruelty. Make thick my blood.
Stop up th access and passage to remorse, That make no compunctions visitings of nature Shake my fell purpose, nor keep peace between Th effect and it. Come to my womans breasts
And take my milk for gall, you murdring ministers Wherever in your slightless substances
You wait on natures mischief. Come, thick night, And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell
That my keen knife see not the wound it makes, Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark To cry Hold, hold! (Shakespeare 1.5.45-61)
The fact that Lady Macbeth views the literal removal of her reproductive organs as the key to the power she craves is demonstrative of the cultural hegemony surrounding womens bodies; which dictates that women, as mothers, are weak and soft in nature. In order to be free from these
conceptions, and also literally free from the body that keeps her from actualizing her goals, she seeks to purge herself of femininity.
Ultimately though, what Lady Macbeth seeks is impossible. She is irrevocably trapped as a woman, controlled by society, her husband, and the tragic plot. Even Macbeths best compliment is only related to Lady Macbeth insofar as it is to her womb: [b]ring forth
men-children only,/For thy undaunted mettle should compose/Nothing but males (Shakespeare 1.7.83-85). The only feasible act of control, then, the only way Lady Macbeth can physically change the function of her body, is suicide. Lady Macbeth first descends into madness and guilt, unable to rid herself of the image of Duncans blood. She sees her situation as inescapable. What, will these hands neer be clean? she asks, knowing that she is powerless to evade a tragic end (Shakespeare 5.1.45). This is true too for Jocasta, who also ends her life after the truth of Oedipus' birth is revealed. She can no longer bear to live her life as a passenger[...] in the grip of fear, watching the pilot of the vessel go to pieces (Sophocles 211). For both Jocasta and Lady Macbeth, suicide proves to be the only way they can end the torment and puppeteering of their reproductive organs: the only way to gain any semblance of control over their lives is to end them.
Both Lady Macbeth and Jocasta represent the power struggle that typifies the female experience throughout history. An Aristotelian tragic hero is likewise tormented. He comes to realize that he has landed himself in a horrible, inescapable situation; simply a pawn in fates great plan. Wasnt I born for torment? Oedipus asks (Sophocles 206). Perhaps he was. But so too was Jocasta, his mother and wife. So too was her body, which wrought her own tragic fate. The difference, of course, is that this control is not dependent on some terrifying prophecy. The same is true for Lady Macbeth, whose husband, having fallen to the perils of ambition, states:
[l]ifes but a walking shadow, a poor player/That struts and frets his hour upon the stage/And then is heard no more. It is a tale/Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,/Signifying nothing (Shakespeare 5.5.27-31). But Lady Macbeth surely lives an equally meaningless life, at the mercy of the will of others. Thus in both cases our male tragic hero and female lead find themselves in the same position: tormented and powerless. But Oedipus and Macbeth meet their respective ends as a direct consequence of their own actions. Lady Macbeth and Jocasta are, conversely, led to commit suicide by the material reality of a condition outside of their control: their own sex. Their fate is reflective of the continual persecution of women under a patriarchal society, which works to trap the female population into a perpetual state of immovable inferiority. This, the reality of womanhood, proves tragic enough in and of itself.
Works Cited
Shakespeare, William. Macbeth. Edited by Barbara A. Mowat and Paul Werstine. Simon and Schuster, 1992.
Sophocles. The Three Theban Plays: Antigone, Oedipus the King, Oedipus at Colonus.
Translated by Robert Fagles. Penguin Books, 1984. 159-251."Black Moses": In-class Essay & Vocabulary
Vocabulary 
1.Debauch
Although Sonyas job threatened to debauch her, she remained faithful to God and became a pillar of virtue. (In reference to Crime and Punishment)
2.Inchoate
Despite their being inchoate, baby giraffes can walk shortly after they are born.
3.Abeyance
Without a purpose in life, humans are put in a mental abeyance.
4.Philistine
Only a philistine would not know what the Mona Lisa is.
5.Refractory
The refractory child refused to speak until it was given ice cream and cookies.
Essay
Question: Which is the better title: Black Moses or Little Pepper?
Black Moses is the better title. 
How do authors title their works and what makes a good or great title? Alain Mabanckou wrote the picaresque novel Petit Piment in French in 2015. The novel was later translated into English by Helen Stevenson in 2017, but rather than simply translating the title from French to English (Petit Piment to Little Pepper), Stevenson renamed the novel, Black Moses. The picaresque novel follows the life of an orphan in the Republic of the Congo from the 1960s to 40 years later in the 2000s, a period and place in which a communist revolution was taking place. The orphans name is Moses, and we follow him on a journey of self discovery out of his orphanage, to the port city of Pointe-Noire, and back to the site of the orphanage, though it was converted into a mental asylum. This journey mirrors that of Moses in many ways and begins and ends with Moses given name. Black Moses makes more sense as the title of this book than Little Pepper does, because the name Moses and the religious allusions to the story of Moses are integral to the book.
	The novel begins with Moses explaining that It all began when I was a teenager, and came to wonder about the name Id been given by Papa Moupelo, a name that roughly means Thanks be to God, the black Moses is born on the earth of our ancestors, and is so long that it is abbreviated to just Moses (3). Moses has ambivalent feelings about his name, enjoying the significance, but fearing that he is not the true Moses and God will not reach out to him like Papa Moupelo described. Moses considers asking Papa Moupelo about Moses name, but does not get the chance as the revolution occurs and Papa Moupelo is not allowed to teach at the orphanage anymore.  The weight that accompanies the name Moses, given to him by Papa Moupelo, makes the removal of Papa Moupelo more difficult for Moses and compels him to search in other places  outside the orphanage  for the significance of his name. 
	After leaving the orphanage in Loango, Moses begins going by Little Pepper after it becomes the nickname that those in Pointe-Noire call him. However, Little Pepper is not necessarily what he wants to be called nor is it an identity for him. When visiting the first doctor, Moses is asked his name, to which he responds that it is Little Pepper, but the doctor specifies that he is asking for Moses family name, and Moses informs him that That's what people call [him], and if you havent got a family theres no point in having a family name, and also elaborates that he would have liked a nice name such as Robin Hood (168). We can see then that the nickname Little Pepper' could be supplemented by some other nickname without much change in the progression of the story as Little Pepper is simply what he is called, not his name.
	Near the end of the novel, Moses returns to and accepts his name since he finally feels that he deserve[s] this name because he had liberated Pointe-Noire from the corrupt mayor (197). This acceptance and identification at the end of the novel connects Moses narrative arc through surviving in Pointe-Noire with his starting struggle with his name in the Loango orphanage. Without the name Moses, the events of the story would not have been as well connected, nor would they have necessarily been possible as the book follows the original story of Moses.
	Moses is an irreplaceable name and concept in the book. With the title Black Moses, the reader is primed to consider the story of Moses and the religious allusions littered through this journey of identity. Like Moses, the biblical character, Moses questions his importance to God and is reassured, goes into an exile of wandering without purpose for many years, and finally kills a man he finds to be evil when he is 40 years old. The reader may not notice the parallels between this novel and the story of Moses without the title preparing them to identify the nuances of both stories.Clifford the big red dog: Arlie, as you probably know the topic of education is an important one that must be discussed, but i'm curious, dear sir what you think an ideal education system is?
 
Arlie: I had no idea you took interest in the philosophy of school structure Clifford, but indeed it is an important question to ask. We can then wonder if a reformed school system would increase the success rates out of school because of it.
 
Clifford: That is indeed something to put thought into, for when a structure changes, oftentimes the outcome does too.
 
Arlie: To understand what needs to change, we need to know what it is now. Schooling before college exists to train students in intellectually challenging courses to build their minds for the future, so they can handle equally intellectually challenging problems. Schools don't teach you math to become a mathematician, school teaches you math to learn the extent of problem solving, which is what math is when you boil it down to its bare minimum.
 
Clifford: Well, couldn't you also say that school teaches you core subjects because careers stem from what they teach you? Math can teach you to become an engineer, English can teach you to become a public speaker, could this be schools wanting to train you in skills for jobs they see society needing the most?
 
Arlie: This could be a possibility, Clifford, a brain surgeon cannot be a brain surgeon without science. But what about, let's say, programming. In a broad sense schools do not teach programming, even though it is a necessary (and well paid) job that in today's society is necessary, disproving your first point. The same core subjects have been taught for ages now, even as society continues on. 
 
Clifford: I see your point, You only seem to draw on the idea of mathematics, but what could that mean for classes like language? What about for classes like english? 
 
Arlie: Well back to my previous idea about core classes teaching you problem solving, (for english we can assume that teaches you to have a stronger way of word), I do not believe this is the ideal way of study in education. For unless a child enjoys what makes up a specific subject, such as language, they might dislike it and even hate it because they are not learning something they see will benefit their future, and in most senses, especially in high school their future relies on the comfortability of the career they choose. As Plato said in The Republic, Do not train children to learn by force and harshness, but direct them to it by what amuses their minds. Children and teens cannot learn things they do not want to, and if you do it by force, they will just forget it later as it has no relevance to their future.
 
Clifford: Are you suggesting that we drop the standard structure of schooling in favor for one that caters towards students' individual wants/ needs? Wouldn't that be impossible considering how vast the things people want to do are? Finding teachers, making them understand everyone's individual interests? That's impossible.
 
Arlie: My dear big red dog, your first point enforces my own, there are too many things people want to achieve in life, so how can we even think to teach in such a narrow minded way? While for physical activities like dance, we can incorporate that into our physical education, schools can put more funding into bringing in speakers and creating activities even online for specific people's wants. We do not need to stray away for the current structure, just allow more time for children to pursue their interests early on, and encourage growth within it.
 
Clifford: ah, I see, as Plato said,   But we would not allow our shoemaker to try to be also a farmer or weaver or builder, because we wanted our shoes well made. in the republic. You suggest we incorporate what children want into normal curriculum, and perhaps having days, maybe once a week, where speakers are brought in to talk about certain careers and subjects?
 
Arlie: That is ideal, yes. To be the best shoe maker, the student has to incorporate learning at a young age, for experience comes with time and repeated process. If the student feels theyre schooling is going to a subject that will benefit in their future, the rest of their education becomes easier. Practical schooling.
 
Clifford: Are you suggesting that normal classes that challenge students intellectually, as you mentioned before, should be completely obsolete and we should focus purely on what the student wants? As you said these core classes build thinking skills, so what would school be without them? Life beyond work still requires problem solving, critical thinking, etc. 
 
Arlie: I see your deep intellectual studies outside of working as a childs size distorting dog has paid off. Just taking up a shield or other weapon will not make a man capable of fighting that very day in any sort of warfare as Plato said in the republic. These core studies are necessary for that fundamental knowledge of reasoning and critical thinking that we as people need to thrive in society, as you make in your point. Education is a clock and without one piece the whole thing falls apart. Some parts are more important, like the face that actually tells the time, but it takes all of them working together to make it work.
 
Clifford: You are very wise. That is not saying much considering I am a dog.
The St. Petersburg Record
Volume CLLI, Issue 287	THURSDAY, MARCH, 23, 1860
Today, sunny with a high of 21 C. Tonight cloudy with a high of 17 C.
SPECIAL REPRINT EDITION
Wicked Businessman
Attempts to frame Bereaved Woman for Theft.
Lieutenant Ilya Petrovich
The common criminal is often subject to a failure of will and reasoning power by a childish and phenomenal heedlessness, at the very instant when prudence and caution are most essential1, conducting a crime with limited forethought and falling prey to common  pitfalls  and  sloppy

Hard times have befallen even St. Petersburg's wealthy socialites.
A wealthy individual by the name of Petr Luzhin recently accused1 a young woman of the theft of one hundred rubles at the funeral of her father, only for a bystander to reveal that Mr. Luzhin himself had planted the note on her earlier that day2. Mr. Luzhin was apprehended and is being handled by the police,
performance. But with the personal stakes of their conduct so high, what  explanation can  we
(Continued from Column Left) For the purposes of this article I reviewed a number of accounts of
This psychology is easy to apply when looking at criminal records, but from a more historical analysis,
but	the	motives	behind	this
baffling crime remain opaque. A witness with knowledge of both
find	for	this	behavior?	The
criminal  activity,	and  found  a
we find another, alternate, root, into
parties3 says...
Continued on Page 8
common justifications for criminal activities are desperation, passion, and avarice, but I believe the root cause that underlies all of them is certain sickness of body and character that compels these actions.2
The sickness behind this failure of will and reason is developed gradually and reach[es] its highest point just before the perpetration of the crime, continued with equal violence at the moment of the crime and for longer or shorter time after, according to the individual case, and then passed off like any other disease.3 Further crimes may be committed past the criminals recovery, as the individual attempts to rectify the errors committed in the grips of this mania. As for the onset of this sickness, I suspect that it takes place primarily in the mind due to an imbalance of passions. Those common motives ascribed to crime are likely aggravating factors, and compound upon each other in producing susceptibility to the illness. I remain unsure whether the disease gives rise to the crime, or whether the crime from its own peculiar nature is always accompanied by something of the nature of disease4, or, to put it more simply, whether the thoughts and preparations for the crime are the true source of the disease, rather than a symptom.
(Continued Column Right)
psychological profile that, with minor variations, remained largely consistent across the criminals assessed in this way. (To clarify for the reader, I excluded those liable solely for petty crimes, as minor transgressions are a frequent enough occurrence for all minds to make these virtually insignificant.) These criminals often describe a building resentment or fixation on the victim or subject developing prior to the perpetration of the crime. Whether or not the crime was premeditated or induced with seeming spontaneity, the criminal held the seed of the action in their head prior to the crime. The actual moment of the crime is marked by a panicked and excited state, in which a criminal is rarely able to react to unexpected variables in a rational manner, and often errs in the more complicated processes of even premeditated crimes. After the conclusion of the crime, the mind of the criminal seems to drift back towards rationality, but that obsessive focus takes longer to abate, as it is turned back onto the investigation into the crime. This actually serves to aid the investigators, as the criminals fixation on them ends up revealing ample clues that can lead to a conviction.
(Continued Column Right)
which a multitude of great men written about in the histories are placed, those for whom abeyance to law is unnatural and all but impossible. All the lawgivers and Trailblazers of humanity, beginning with the ancients, continuing with Lycurgus, the Solons, Mohammeds, Napoleons, and so forth, each and every one of them were criminal, just by virtue of the fact that in propagating new laws, they were at the same time destroying the old laws viewed as sacred by society and handed down by their fathers.5 Regardless of how one feels about these figures, their lawlessness had a profound and immeasurable effect on society. These extraordinary exceptions are not only justified in their actions, but for each in the process of executing his idea, he possesses a certain right to permit his conscience to overstep various obstacles6. These actions remain criminal, but their justification is on a different level than the baseness of an ordinary crime. I suspect these examples were underrepresented in the accounts I assessed, largely because these extraordinary individuals, committing their transgressions with clarity of mind, would be much less likely to be caught in the first place and show up in these accounts.
Response to ON CRIME
Porfiry Petrovich
Since the publication of this article I have had the pleasure of making the acquaintance of the author, a fine young man flush with youthful, incorruptible pride, and the audacity of despair1. After discussing this work at length, I decided to publish a response for two primary reasons; one, to elucidate and expound upon the thought presented in the articles conclusion, and two, to provide some of my own commentary regarding this philosophy.
The author makes a rather bold statement in his declaration that certain extraordinary individuals have the right to permit [their] conscience to overstep various obstacles2. Upon further discussion, he clarified to me that it in no way follows that [these extraordinary people] had the right to kill anyone and everyone3, only that the person possesses the right to do what is needed to make their extraordinary impact on the world. He defended this premise further when pressed about the possibility that an ordinary person might attempt to overstep their position and commit crimes, saying that while this is not uncommon, they will beat themselves up because they are so well behaved4 and that this is a primary function of law in his view...
(Continued on Page 2)
ADVERTISEMENTS
Textual Evidence
ON CRIME
0 pg. 284, I signed it only with my initials
1 pg. 78
2 pg. 284, You insisted that the act of committing a crime is alway accompanied by illness
3 pg. 78
4 pg. 78
5 pg. 285
6pg. 285
Response to ON CRIME
1 pg. 498
2 pg. 285
3 pg. 285
4 pg. 288
5 pg. 289
6 pg. 290 stupid and vain men [etc], pg. 505 Hey, dont scorn your life [etc]
7 pg. 287
8 pg. 461 I killed myself [etc]
9 pg. 285
10 pg. 507
Wicked Business Man Attempts to Frame Bereaved Woman for Theft
1pg. 432 "a government banknote belonging to me... [etc.]"
2pg. 439 "I saw how you secretly slipped it into her pocket... [etc.]"
3pg. 441 "several special circumstances known only to me, which I'll now explain... [etc.]"
Mikolka and Mitrei Home Painting
pg. 153 "'partment where Mitrei and I was painting... [etc.]
pg. 500 "what does Mikolka have to do with this?"
Memorial Bible Study Pg. 356 Lizaveta gave it to me
Pg. 357 I was at church last week, too to have a requiem sung.
