Figure 1. Black Yeast vs. Light Orange Yeast
Comparisons between percentages of Black and Light Orange yeast in populations growing with and without Fungicure. Our study examined yeast of two types (one colored black and one colored light orange) to find which yeast type would survive better in conditions with and without an antifungal antibiotic. Our study concluded that the Light Orange yeast was able to reproduce with greater success in both conditions.?The ten precepts of Buddhism, define Buddhism as a religion of sacrifice used to reach a state without suffering whereas the Ten Commandments of Christianity and Judaism, define the religions are rule-based, where there is a right and wrong way for a person to act. Buddhist practices are to reach a state of no suffering, by not wanting, letting go of connections to material objects, and destroying your ego. Desire is seen as non-acceptance for the creation and destruction of everything because desire is the want for things to stay permanent and not go through the inevitable change all things go through. This is why many of the 10 precepts involve sacrificing wants to reach a wantless existence. 
The ten precepts progress as follows, Abstain from killing. Abstain from stealing. Abstain from misusing sex. Abstain from lying. Abstain from giving or taking drugs. Abstain from discussing the faults of others. Abstain from praising yourself while abusing others. Abstain from sparing the Dharma assets. Abstain from indulging in anger. Abstain from defaming the Three Treasures [Buddha, Dharma, Sangha]. Many of these precepts involve the sacrifice of a human want or tendency rule five, seven, and 8 involve sacrifice to prevent want. The sacrifice of taking drugs, of ego, and of withholding supplies from others are examples of the sacrifice of material things or pleasurable experiences that are commanded in Buddhism. Like Buddhism, Christianity, and Judaism share a set of ten commandments, they are, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a graven image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth [...]You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy.[...]Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land which the Lord your God gives you. You shall not kill. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. You shall not covet your neighbors wife, or his manservant, or his maidservant, or his ox, or his ass, or anything that is your neighbors. These ten commandments are said to be the recorded word of God. And although these ten commandments involved religious practices, the majority of these rules define the right and wrong way a person can conduct himself. The first five commandments are commandments that describe a follower should act in accordance with god and religion, but the last five are rules of conduct for everyday life. 
The Buddhist ten commandments and the commandments of Christianity and Judaism share rules. They share rules that forbid killing, stealing, lying, and adultery and a rule that places importance on respecting the positions of others. But there are differences. The Buddist ten Commandments prohibit the use of drugs, whereas the commandments of Christianity and Judaism mention nothing about mind-altering substances. Also in the Christian and Islamic commandments, there is no mention of modesty or talking badly of others besides respecting your mother and father. 
 ?Georges of the jury, today the prosecution presented you with numerous facts that prove that a Homo sapien committed the murder of an innocent Neanderthal and to improve our society, the  Homo sapien who committed this roughness crime should be punished for their actions. The actions of the Homo sapiens can be compared to Columbus crossing the Atlantic in 1492, when he arrived in the Americas, and committed mass genocide, because, in his mind, they were less developed. We dont even know if they were less developed, they couldve had a secretly developed culture. The word human is usually applied only to Homo. Sapien and other members of the genus Homo.
In addition, we heard that at least 4% of our DNA can be directly linked to the Neanderthals, and with this information, we can infer that interbreeding occurred between homo sapiens and Neanderthals. This further proves the point that these two are similar enough to produce fertile children. If we do not have at least a few commonalities, then we would not contain Neathendral DNA. Moreover, Homo neanderthals is part of the genus Homo, or human. Though they may be of a different species, they are still technically human and the murder law applies in the same way it would apply for a sapien.
Researchers from the University of York say that Neanderthals also had emotions and feelings. Should we really say that the friends and family of the Neanderthal did not experience grief? This Neanderthal had a life, a family, friends. As was previously stated, they cared for their sick and injured. They experienced joy, sadness, anger, and all that was ended in a heartbeat, one cruel, thoughtless move, that caused the death of one human being. Furthermore, there are some languages that are more advanced than others but that wouldn't justify genocide. At the time of the murder, humans could not make computers or build wires. Humans at the time were unable to perform significant cognitive tasks that were able to do now. 
After hearing the evidence provided by the prosecution today, I hope that you, George of the jury, find the verdict of the homo sapien in question, guilty of murder, not animal abuse, murder. As the prosecution we have proved evidence that proves the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt. It is your responsibility to help us make a fair and just world, and for you to find the verdict of the defendant's guilt will bring us that much closer. ?Coca Cola
Car horns honked, engines groaned, and a bead of sweat fell from her brow, only to be wiped hurriedly away from her rigid jawline. The car jerked to a stop. A bobby pin slid off of the dashboard and landed in the seat next to her. She let out an irritated sigh. 
Dr. Madeline Crane looked ahead, looked at her ticking watch, then looked ahead again. She promptly parked the car, opened the door, and walked to the hood, humming anxiously to herself.
Hey, dont do that! It holds up the cars behind you! said the man in the car behind her.
Well, if you havent noticed, none of the cars have moved for the past fifteen minutes, so my car isnt holding up the cars behind me any more than yours! she said as a vein bulged from her forehead. I have places to be, so I suggest that you leave me alone and carry on with your humdrum and ordinary life.
Excuse me, but maam
Dr. Crane continued humming and laced her fingers together like a ball of yarn about to unwind. She tripped on her way back to the car, got up, irritatedly brushed off the dust from her ironed black dress, and rummaged in the front seat for something. 
The sun beat down on the dusty grey scene, reflecting the shiny metal hubcaps of Dr. Cranes car. She emerged with a bobby pin. She opened the hood, and sitting on the back of the car in front of her, she began to fiddle with the engine. The smell of gasoline and body hung in the air.
As if plucked from the earth by some unknown power, Dr. Cranes car gave a sputter and rose into the air. She rushed towards the door, pulled herself up, and put her foot on the gas. She looked down, looked at her ticking watch, then looked down again. As her car sped forward, her pursed lips gave the slightest intimation of a smile. 
She reached into the glove compartment and pulled out an ice-cold coca cola. When she raised her bottle in celebration, she heard a clink. 
She woke up, sweaty, and brought her hand back down from where her dream catcher hung, still swinging.
?Craven
When I woke up, I looked out of my bedroom window, ominous clouds hung in the air. The craven finch outside flitted muscidly from tree to tree frightened by the inclement whether. The finchs usually adroit wings retrogressed into a negligible excuse for wings because the wind was so frigid. He could no longer fly
 With a cursory glance at my alarm clock that had been harassing me for the past fifteen minutes, I jump out of bed, got dressed, and ran outside. In no time at all, I too found myself craven and terrified. 
?Luca Millard-Kish
2/26/20
L200
Cada verano cuando joven, iba al parque en el verano. Iba en la maana entonces la clima no estaba muy caluroso. En Lunes, siempre iba con mis primos, y nosotros jugbamos juntos. Pillbamos alredador las estructuras de juegos, comamos los pcnics en el parque, y entonces, ibamos a obtener helado. 
Uno verano, yo fui a Chicago para mi cumpleaos. Fui con mi mama. Despues de la termina de la escuela, fui en Junio. Mi cumpleaos fue en Mayo, pero nosotros viajamos a Chicago en Junio. Hice muchos cosoas, pero mi tres cosas favoritos son inolvidable. Primero, el razn para el viaje fue a ir un restaurante con tres estrella michelines. Se llamaba Alinea. Esta restaurante se combinaban comida con teatro. Segundo, navegamos en un barco con un gua turstico, y vimos la arquitectura de Chigago. Lo fue facintante. La ultima cosa que nosotros hacemos fue cuando comimos a un restaurante se llamaba Cafe Babariba, un restaurante de tapas de Espaa, para postre, nosotros ordenamos los empaadas de manzana. Hasta el da de hoy, todava hablamos de los con nostalgia y memorias buenas.?Alexandre Lipson
Brian Crawford
English 200
25 January 2021
The Use of Imagery to Show Authorial Intent in Short Stories
A short story contains a narrative from a period in time. However the focus of the short story does not focus upon this narrative. Instead, the focus is on an authors message to the reader. The authors message--what the author wants the reader to think--is called tone. This tone, often referred to as a moral of the story, is rarely stated outright, but rather is hinted at throughout the story. The process of providing hints to the reader in order for him or her to understand and unravel the authors message is called showing. To cement this idea of showing, we can compare two hypothetical concrete examples. First, in story A, A man is angry. Second, in story B, A man slammed his fist on a table, it lurched upward and came crashing down, while breaking all four of its legs in the process. One can interpret that the man in both stories is angry, but that was only stated in story A. Meanwhile, in story B, a certain tool was utilized in order to show the reader what the author is trying to say. This tool is imagery. Drawing the aforementioned example, imagery is what the reader can see, hear, feel, smell, or taste in the story. The reader can see the closed fist of the man, and hear the smashing of the table. While connected, these data paint a picture of the authors message from story A, A man is angry. In order to better understand the usages and possibilities of the tool of showing, we will take a look at several examples from published short stories.
First of all, Jack Londons, To Build a Fire, is about a man who needs to escape a snowstorm, with his life at stake. London describes the man traversing through the snow as, [The man] ploughed and floundered through the snow. We can see imagery from this sentence in a few ways. First of all, the action of ploughing through a lot of snow is difficult. The reader feels the weight of the snow through the slow ploughing action. Second, the verb floundered, derives its meaning from the flounder fish, a fish that flops around aimlessly and frantically. These two verbs, of futile snow ploughing and tireless floundering paint the picture of a man struggling to get through snow. So, from this imagery, the author is showing the reader that the man is desperately struggling to get through the snow.
Second, In Ambrose Bierces, An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge, a man is hanged. Bierce provides imagery of the mans watch, more specifically, the sound produced by the watch. Bierce writes, Striking [...] was a sound [...], a sharp, distinct, metallic percussion like the stroke of a blacksmith's hammer upon the anvil; [...] Its recurrence was regular, but as slow as the tolling of a death knell. [...] What he heard was the ticking of his watch. (Bierce). From this quote, we can detect imagery in the form of sounds and metaphors. In terms of sound, prior to Bierce stating that the mans watch is producing the noise, the reader gets to hear a regular metal pinging noise. These descriptions of sound can hint at the fact that the noise is produced by a watch. However, oftentimes, sound alone is not enough to paint a full picture of the authors intent for the reader. This is why Bierce uses metaphors in addition to sounds. The two images that are put in the readers mind are an anvil and a death knell--this specific metaphor is key because a death knell is a type of bell rung at funerals. Given that funerals are about someone dying, a connection is now made between the ticking of the mans watch and his own mortal fate. So, with the ferocious sound of the anvil and the solemn chime of the death knell, in addition to the aforementioned sounds of a watch, the author is showing the reader that the mans time is drawing closer, that his death knells will soon ring, and that he is going to die.
	Third and finally, in An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge, The man dreams that he escapes his hanging and swims away in the river below him. The man pays attention to every detail that he can see of the multifarious living, moving, and breathing creatures that exist around him. Bierce says, [The man] [...] saw the individual trees, the leaves and the veining of each leaf. [...] [He] noted the prismatic colors in all the stream, the beating of the dragon flies wings, the strokes of the water spiders legs. (Bierce). There are many examples of visual imagery in this passage, and all of this imagery is a metaphor for being alive. The author reveals this metaphor to the reader through the verb choice of the insects actions and the descriptions of the plant-life. Appearing first, is the veining of [leaves]. Veins are conduits of blood, which is needed to live. Next, Bierce refers to the prismatic colors of the water stream. These same glistening colors are seen in blood, which is needed to live. In terms of the actions of the insects, the Bierce describes the dragon flies wings as beating, just like a heart. Additionally, the Bierce describes the spiders legs as stroking. This resembles the stroking of an engine, which is needed to operate machines. The function of an engine in a machine is similar to that of a heart in a lifeform. The reason for describing such imagery of life, is to trick the reader into thinking the man is still alive. Ultimately, we know that this is not the situation. The man did, in fact, die when he was hanged. However, the reader is shown this imagery before they can come to the conclusion. Bierce wants the reader to believe that the man escaped with his life, and so he includes the exaggerated imagery of life to persuade the reader into mistakenly believing that the man is alive.
Why would one bother with showing as opposed to just telling? Showing can be more effective at engaging the reader than telling. This is because the reader must interpret what they are being shown in order to find out the meaning behind it; this is as opposed to telling, where the author has done the interpretation for the reader. To extrapolate from this, if the reader has to engage more with the story--and continues to do so without setting it down, it is reasonable to assume that they would likely enjoy it more. However, one pitfall of showing is that there is a potential for a discrepancy to form between what the author intends and the reader actually interprets. When an author provides certain imagery, they are thinking about that imagery from their own perspective. So, for example, if an author likes grapes and uses them as a metaphor for tastiness, but the reader hates grapes, they will make a connection to the metaphor opposite to the authors--Although, a good author will likely be conscious of this fact. For this reason, in some cases, telling the reader something can be a necessity. Telling might be necessary if a characters actions could have multiple meanings. Then, some context might be needed in order for a reader to understand the authors intended meaning behind the action However, in most cases, showing in a story both captivates the reader and supports the authors idea of the story. And, the tool of showing is a useful artifice for doing so.?Con:
This is the essence of the agricultural revolution, the ability to keep more people alive under worse conditions. (83).
How did the wheat convince Homo Sapiens to exchange a rather good life for a more miserable existence? (81).
The word domestic comes from the Latin domus, which means house. Whos the one living in a house? Not the wheat. Its the Sapiens. (81).
Agriculture of cows and wheat in enclosed villaged allowed disease to spread.
Village life certainly brought the first farmers some immediate benefits, such as better protection against wild animals, rain and cold. Yet for the average person, the disadvantages probably outweighed the advantages. (82).
Poorer baby health
More famine due to reliance on single food source. As opposed to foragers who could adapt upon removal of certain food source.
Spurred violence and competition over land
The body of Homo Sapiens had not evolved for such tasks. (80).
Allowed to worse genes to pass on to further generations due to lack of required strength to reproduce. Also allowed genetic diseases to propagate.
	Farming lead to oppression and slavery
-Violence
-Fear
-Oppression
Pro:
	Better for long run. Higher reproduction. Technological advancement
	Pushed society forward: jobs; trade; economic growth; security
	Build community by shared common goal
	Success = modernization - medicine; tech; culture
-Comfort
-Choice
-Diversity 
-Life
?	Starting around ten thousand years ago, humans began a part of their evolutionary journey that would change them as a species forever. They began the gradual process of settling down and becoming farmers. The first human farmers farmed wheat. Becoming farmers gave humans many advantages, one of which was increased population size. However, farming life was difficult and had many pitfalls. An increased population size meant a greater need for land, both to house new people as well as plant food to feed them. The humans that survive off of a single source are very vulnerable to famine if the source fails to produce the necessary quantities. And unlike farmers, foragers were very mobile and did not need to own land as a base. A need for land and insurance of crop success is what caused farmers to be more violent than foragers.
	The human population expanded in size after the agricultural revolution, so there was a need for more land for more food and more housing. Farmers needed land for two main reasons, housing and food. Farmers stayed year-round in settlements, so those who lived there would need land to live upon. (Harari 85). Additionally, wheat takes a large area of land to grow. With more people in a farming settlement, more land for food is needed. Then, humans would compete and battle over land. With more land taken, a farming groups territory would expand. Human bands who first developed farming of wheat in small regions of Jericho where would could grow would inevitably cross in farming land, their would need to determine ownership, often times in violent ways. (Harari 86).These traits were unlike those of the nomadic forager, who would live without ownership of land nor in close enough proximity to fellow foragers to fight. Foragers today live mainly in isolated and inhospitable areas such as the Arctic or the Kalahari, where population density is very low and opportunities to fight other people are limited. (Harari 59). Additionally, due to their mobility, foragers didnt settle any land permanently and would therefore not need to protect it. Foragers moved house every month, every week, and sometimes even every day. (Harari 43).
	Human farmers survived based off of a single large resource: wheat. Crops were valued and needed to be protected from both weather and other people in order to survive. In terms of weather and drought, Harari writes, By increasing their dependence on a single source of food, they were actually exposing themselves even more to depredations of drought. (Harari 87). Farmers were very protective of their wheat, they needed to protect their sole source of food. As aforementioned, the human population was expanding and so competition over land increased. If a certain farming group was in danger of not being able to supply themselves with food, they would need to take another groups food. In turn, this lead to violent competition over a single source of food. In contrast, human foragers were mobile and relied on many sources of food. If one source of food was depleted, they could make due with the others. (Harari 49). Competition between a single food source was unnecessary for foragers as they relied on many sources of food.
	Additionally, the psychological aspect of a worse life and living conditions caused violence to increase among farmers. [Humans exchanged] a rather good life [of foraging] for a more miserable existence [of farming] (Harari 81). Because of the miserable life of farmers, they would be more motivated to change their lives through violence or other means than foragers who lived rather good lives.
	Farmers were more violent than foragers because of their need for land and food. 
###	I attempted to employ Pathos in my third paragraph. I know that you said you
would show us how to use it later. But I figured I would leave my thoughts in so I	could be graded on them. What I said was illogical, but logic is Logos Im not sure.
I have neither given nor received unauthorized help on this work.?Topic: What are some concepts related to writing that you have learned from reading short stories from Into the Widening World?
Incorporate the following words into your paragraph:
intimation, stolid, adulterate, adroit, retrogress, impetus
As Ive read the short stories from Into the Widening World, one of the key concepts present was to give an intimation of the characters thoughts and feelings rather than state them. This is called Show Dont Tell. For this to come across in the right way, you have to be an adroit storyteller, because if you have little experience with this concept, your writing may be adulterated by high-flown language and ideas. If you try too hard, it's like your writing skill has retrogressed back to an elementary school level. This leads to confusion. While show dont tell might seem as though the characters are stolid and boring, when used well, and investigated by the reader, it can be the impetus for an exhilarating story.?You will be given this prompt in class. 
You will also have the last period of Monday to work on this. 
This should be around 300-500 words long. 
You should include some research and information in your prompt. 
You can answer this personally, academically, or as a mixture of both. 
Prompt
Choose two of the topics that you learned about on Friday and Monday. How are these topics related? How do you think understanding one better helps you understand the other? 
Suicide/NSSI & Self Preservation Instincts.
Links:
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8905539/
https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/bering-in-mind/is-killing-yourself-adaptive-that-depends-an-evolutionary-theory-about-suicide/
http://www.selfinjury.bctr.cornell.edu/perch/resources/the-relationship-between-nssi-and-suicide-5.pdf
https://public.wsu.edu/~taflinge/biology.html
There are two elements involving suicide that will be discussed: the difference between NSSI and suicide, and suicide from an evolutionary perspective in conflict with the natural instinct--that surpasses just the realm of Homo sapiens--of self-preservation.
To begin with, the former will be addressed, specifically in regards to suicide versus non-suicidal self injury. Both conditions, suicidal thoughts or actions, and non-suicidal self injury stem from common stressful factors. Some factors include but are not limited to: trauma, feelings of isolation, substance abuse, depression, anxiety, and feelings of worthlessness. (Cornell Universitys Research Program on Self-Injury and Recovery, The relationship between non-suicidal self-injury and suicide). Additionally, it is noted that participation in NSSI is also a risk factor for suicidal thoughts and behaviors. However, despite the similar causes, suicide and NSSI have two different objectives: self-preservation and self-destruction. While both suicide and NSSI result in self-destruction, the result of NSSI is not death. Cornell Universitys Research Program on Self-Injury and Recovery summarizes the difference as follows, Non-suicidal self-injury is typically used as a coping strategy for preserving and enhancing life; not ending ones life. However, since NSSI and suicidality both indicate underlying distress it is important to assess whether self-injurious youth are also suicidal. (Cornell Universitys Research Program on Self-Injury and Recovery, The relationship between non-suicidal self-injury and suicide). The latter assertion made in the quote reiterates the idea that NSSI can lead to suicidal thoughts or actions. So, to summarize, while suicide and NSSI can originate from the same stressors, each is a coping mechanism with a different goal in mind. NSSI, while destructive, aims to change the situation in order to cope, while suicide aims to remove ones self from the situation in order to avoid problems entirely. However, neither method is a healthy solution to the initial stressors. Professional help and therapy is strongly recommended in order to deal with the aforementioned factors and more.
Secondly, the latter topic of suicide from an evolutionary perspective in contrast with the instinct of self-preservation. As mentioned in the introduction, humans, in addition to all life forms, have the natural instinct of self-preservation. (Washington State University, The Biological Basis of Human Behavior, Richard F. Taflinger). However, chiefly, this instinct is in terms of self-preservation of their genetic material and, in turn, their offspring. An example of this, as mentioned in the Scientific American article, Is killing yourself adaptive? That depends: An evolutionary theory about suicide by Jesse Bering, is with cannabalistic spiders and suicidal bees. The male spiders were cannibalized by the females to provide for their offspring, and if certain bees became infected with fly larvae, they would fly away and die to spare the hive from infection. These behaviors represent self-preservation being secondary to either, preservation of offspring, or colony. However, the article does note that there are differences between such evolutionary behaviors in spiders and bees, and humans. However, it does connect such evolutionary behaviors to humans via an article published in 1986 by evolutionary neurobiologist Denys deCatanzaro, titled, mathematical model of self-preservation and self-destruction. Bering summarized the model, People are most likely to commit suicide when their direct reproductive prospects are discouraging and, simultaneously, their continued existence is perceived, whether correctly or incorrectly, as reducing inclusive fitness by interfering with their genetic kins reproduction. In other words, a person is most likely to commit suicide when they are unlikely to have children, and continuing to live will not improve their ability to pass on their genes. From a subjective standpoint, this statement does not seem to distance to logic of suicide from the spiders or bees. However, studies both by deCatanzaro and other researchers have evidenced the model. So, while this answer shys away from addressing the personal stressors of suicide, it might conclude that if the result of any stressors, depression for example, were to not lead to reproduction, the it would be a suicidal-inducing stressor. The key example given in the article was that of homosexual-identifying men and their increased suicide rates in comparison to other groups. However, there are major flaws with the logic of the model. For example, there are those who are happy and non-suicidal that are not capable of reproducing. While numerous studies have been done to provide evidence for the reproduction-necessity model, perhaps there is a different answer.
In conclusion, humans can have different reactions to stresses. Include both non-suicidal self harm, and suicide. Those two methods either change or remove the stressors. In the case of removing stressors by way of suicide, it appears that the likelihood of dying by suicide is factored by ones basic instincts and requirement of genetic self-preservation. The last relationship is that of NSSI on inclusive fitness, the ability to maintain genetic self-preservation.?What is the nature of humanity?
Cognitive Revolution Defined Humans
Agricultural Revolution defined societies
Only once there is a surplus of food that justice and equality can be observed
Limited resources ? only focus on thinking when basic needs are satisfied
https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/lunchtime-leniency/
Maslows hierarchy of needs.
Humans are capable of good only when they have their Maslowian basic and psychological needs met.
Religion, unification of humankind
Are humans good or bad?
If good, what prevents them from being that way
If bad, what allows them to be that way
Has society been good or bad for humans?
If humans can make whatever they want regardless of circumstance,
poverty , etc. is their fault
Tribalism
Social Media -> Tribalism
COMMENT: It was hard to hone in on just one idea as I was beginning to write my essay. Also, I thought I would use a different structure to my essay because the requirements never say I have one structure to stick to. I was considering using images of Maslows hierarchy of needs, but I reread the instructions once more, and you said be clear with your writing. Not use of pictures so I didnt use pictures. If I did, I would use the standard triangular hierarchy and an alternate graph one. Triangle: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/88/Maslow%27s_Hierarchy_of_Needs.jpg/800px-Maslow%27s_Hierarchy_of_Needs.jpg
Graph: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/e/ef/Dynamic_hierarchy_of_needs_-_Maslow.svg/440px-Dynamic_hierarchy_of_needs_-_Maslow.svg.png
Use Sapiens, history, notes, books, anything you want to help you try to answer this question. 
Have a strong thesis. 
Use your analytical skills to use history to find evidence for your point of view. 
Be clear and direct in your writing. 
 
The point of this exercise is to have you look at all of human history, and to consider all the philosophy we have learned and to then put it together in one single claim. There is no right or wrong way to answer this. I care more about your ideas than anything else and want to see that you are testing your own thinking. Challenge yourself. 
Minimum: 1,000 Words
Maximum: 2,000 Words	Two major changes in humans evolution redefined what it meant to be human. The first of which is the Cognitive revolution. The Cognitive revolution allowed humans to develop traits never before seen in other animals, languages, and religions. Language and religion for the unification of humankind. (Sapiens) These however are not the only defining factors of humanity. In addition to the Cognitive revolution, there was another human revolution called the Agricultural Revolution. This revolution enabled humans to construct cities, laws, and money. (Sapiens) These two revolutions can be summarized as follows, the Cognitive revolution defined humans, and the Agricultural revolution defined society. So, the language-speaking, religious humans make up the city or empire-located, law-based, monetary-trading society. However, due to the creation of societies, from an ethical perspective, both good and bad things have happened to humans by humans. To name a few examples, humans have both invented medicines to cure the sick, and invented weapons to wage war and killed each other. This raises the question: When are humans capable of good, and when are humans bad?
According to Abraham Maslow, an American psychologist, humans need to have certain items and relationships with others in order to be fulfilled, or happy. These needs are knowns as Maslows Hierarchy of Needs. So, humans are capable of good only when they have their Maslowian basic and psychological needs are met.
	First, it is paramount to explain Maslows Hierarchy of Needs. Maslows Hierarchy is in the shape of a five-layered triangle with three stages: basic needs; psychological needs; and self-fulfillment needs. The basic needs consist of two layers: the physiological needs of food, water, warmth, and rest; and the safety needs of security and safety. The psychological needs consist of belongingness and love needs, and esteem needs. The first of which is about relationships and friendships, and the second is about feeling prestige and accomplishment. Finally, the last, self-fulfillment layer describes self-actualization or achieving ones potential.
The original version of the model (M.H.o.N. Wikipedia) suggests that a person is in one layer of the hierarchy at a time, while a dynamic version suggests a variance in the intensity of each need as personal development increases. (M.H.o.N. Wikipedia) The needs that are required in order for humans to be capable of good are the physiological needs of food, water, warmth, rest, and safety; and the psychological needs of relationships and accomplishment. Without these, humans cannot be capable of good.
	Next, it is also important to understand what doing good means. There are multiple definitions for doing good. However, the definitions, in essence, mean aiding in the attainment of others needs. An example of this is inventions. For example, the invention of G.M.O.s is controversial, however it can be seen as being good because it helped those who needed the most basic of needs to get food. (https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2015/01/26/cheap-food-thank-gmos/)
	A simple example of a basic need affecting ones judgment can be seen in an article discussing sentencing from judges based on their hunger. (https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/lunchtime-leniency/) In this case, the human brain has limited resources, and those resources can be devoted to psychological processes, such as judging when the physiological needs of nutrition are satisfied. Nutrition and the other Maslowian basic needs are key in the Agricultural revolution because it was the first time humans were able to sit down and generate an excess of food. An excess of food meant that humans were able to focus on something other than the gathering of food in order to survive.
The extra time humans had to think allowed them to do good, like invent and innovate. (https://academic.oup.com/bioscience/article/69/3/180/5320252) However, when humans needed to gather food to survive, they acted in a bad manner such as fighting over food or land. An example of this is with wheat, the first domesticated plant. Wheat was a catalyst for permanent settlements, (Sapiens 86) which are good for society. Yet, at the same time, many wars were fought over wheat and land that could grow it. Another basic need is sleep. It is relevant to note that sleep deprivation can lead to insanity or death. Neither dead nor insane people can think rationally and so sleep is a requirement. To summarize, when humans do not have basic resources, they either cannot devote the time to developing themselves or society for good. Or, they fight over what resources do exist, and that is bad.
However, what allows people who do not have their most basic needs met to do good deeds? There are two answers to this question. The first of which is that the good deeds that the person does will ultimately lead to their attainment of the basic needs. A tangible example of this is hunger-striking. However, one caveat that could be presented in that case is that those who are protesting, in fact, have access to their basic needs but are merely choosing not to use them. In this case, a more extreme example could be slave revolutions. The people who are enslaved are doing a good deed for themselves by freeing themselves of enslavement. While the people who are enslaved likely did not have their basic physiological needs met, they would likely be revolting to support their psychological needs of relationships with their children and their childrens well-being. This example of psychological needs being met while basic needs are not is reminiscent of the dynamic hierarchy model, wherein one can have the psychological need of ensuring their childrens safety, while not having their basic needs of food and proper shelter.
Secondly, psychological needs are also a requirement in order for humans to act in a good way. Once again, the psychological needs are relationships and the feeling of accomplishment, the former being more important. As aforementioned, relationships can be an inspiration for good deeds. Relationships are also built on trust and collaboration. Collaboration is a requirement for invention (legally, collaboration is key in obtaining patents) and improvement of society. The importance of relationships can be seen when juxtaposed to the absence of relationships. While it is an unrealistic scenario, if a human with basic needs but no relationships seeks to do good, they will not have a frame of reference as to what would benefit others. This lack of understanding of others inhibits a humans ability to good for others besides themselves. An example of this can be imagined between a human living in a town and a human living on their own. The human in the town is aware of the psychological needs of other humans, so, that human can act on those needs. The secluded human is only aware of themselves. So, while their seclusion in of itself does not inhibit that human from doing good, it reduces their capability to do good.
Overall, a human requires both physical and psychological needs to be capable of doing good. With limited resources, humans can only focus on being good when their basic needs are satisfied. This is the same as the psychological needs. However, the psychological needs provide a reference frame for how to benefit society. Both sets of needs allow for humans to do good, help others achieve their needs. Ultimately, while not the topic of this essay, in Maslows opinion, the ultimate goal of life is to achieve ones full potential.?Luca Millard-Kish
Brian Crawford
E100
25 March 2020
Patria and Religion
He who does not know how to deceive does not know how to rule. (cited in biography.com). These are the words of Rafael Trujillo, the dictator of the Dominican Republic. The book In the Time of the Butterflies tells the story of the four Mirabal sisters and their involvement in the movement against Trujillos regime. Patria Mercedes is the oldest of the Mirabal sisters and throughout the book, religion guides her decisions and involvement in the movement. Religion is a belief in something greater, an omnipotent power. Throughout history, it has been a source of inspiration and guidance for many people. Patria Mercedes is no exception. The Patria and the Mirabal sisters fight for their belief in a free government throughout the book, and they inspire others to do the same. Patrias involvement in the movement is influenced by her relationship to religion.
In the beginning, Patria Mercedes is the most religious and docile of the sisters. She believes that love will win out and life will just happen.  The first time we hear from Patria, she says, From the beginning, I felt it, snug inside my heart, the pearl of great price. No one had to tell me to believe in God or to love everything that lives. I did it automatically like a shoot inching its way towards the light (44). This shows Patrias personality in one broad stroke. She loves everything and finds solace in religion and God. In this context, the phrase, Pearl of great price, refers to the love of religion inside of her. While this is her initial view, as she matures and starts to have new feelings and desires, Patrias thoughts begin to change. They lead her to leave the Inmaculada, the religious school that she was previously attending, and stay at home. After she leaves, she meets Pedrito, the love of her life, and she gets pregnant. Alvarez depicts the scene of Patrias miscarriage as a beat in her religious development, and eventually, her involvement in the movement. Alvarez writes, And suddenly, I was crying in her arms, because I could feel the waters breaking, the pearl of great price slipping out, and I realized I was giving birth to something dead I had been carrying inside me (52). The reoccurrence of the phrase, Pearl of great price, referring to her dead child, can be likened to the dead religion that had been living inside of her. At this point, she begins to lose her faith. Saying that she was giving birth to something dead she had been carrying shows that her faith was already faltering, and the event of losing her child was the impetus for her reckoning with her change of view towards religion.
	As her sisters, especially Minerva go headfirst towards the movement, Patria is more cautious. She is grieving her lost child and searching for her new purpose now that she set religion aside. Patria uses the commitment to her family as a new direction for her life, but also a guise that covers up the fact that she is scared to join the movement. With time, Patria says I got braver like a crab going sideways. I inched towards courage the best was I could, helping out with the little things(154). We see Patrias internal struggle to confront her uncertainty and fear around the movement, but it still isnt until later that she fully commits. As the opportunities for Patria to get involved with the movement become more frequent, she begins to hesitate. She considers going back to the safety of religion. My old yearning to be in the religious life stirred. I felt myself rising, light-headed with transcendence, an overflowing fountain. Thank the Lord I had that child in my womb to remind me of the life I had already chosen (160). This illustrates her coping with the fact that her past life has changed, and the role of religion in this new chapter will look different. After Patria experiences a violent shelling and sees a young boy die in front of her eyes, she has a realization. This experience impacts her view towards the movement and muddies her faith yet again.  Coming down that mountain, I was a changed woman (162).
In the last part of the book, Patria sees the movement in a new light. She cant believe God would let so many people suffer. Alongside her sisters, all except Ded, Patria helps to raise awareness and stands a proud mariposa. When her son, Nelson, is taken by the regime she begins to pray to El Jefe. Religion has come back into her life, but she uses it for a different purpose. She says I dont know if thats how it started, but pretty soon, I was praying to him [Trujillo], not because he was worthy or anything like that. I wanted something from him, and prayer was the only way I know to ask (202). In desperation, Patria offers herself as a sacrificial lamb in order to see her son. El Jefe, a hedonistic and vile man, the antithesis of God, wants one thing, and one thing only from women, and in Patrias need, she considers giving him what he wants. During her audience with El Jefe, Patria gets her son back, but she worries that the evil one had become flesh like Jesus. She had offered herself to God, but when the line between God and El Jefe became unclear, Alvarez suggests that Patria sacrificed herself for her son. 
There are different reasons that one might speak up against injustice, but as shown in Patrias involvement in the movement, there was a correlation between when she saw the little boy die on the mountain and the shattering of her faith in humanity. This led her to join the movement because it was an intimate and relatable experience. It couldve been her boy. In the end, Patria dies for what she believes in, but it took many steps, all of which made her question or completely renounce her religion, for her to commit herself to the movement. From these three examples of Patrias relationship to religion, we can start to connect religions influence on Patrias decisions. This raises the question: does Patria use religion as a coping mechanism in the book, and what is it about her experience that leads her to change her views and join the revolution? Religion unites, divides, and heals, and throughout history, it has been the motivation for many displays of social activism. Patria Mercedes Mirabal was a strong woman who used the power of a belief in something greater to raise awareness and fight for what she believed in.
Works Cited
Rafael Trujillo. Biography.com, A&E Networks Television, 19 Apr. 2019, www.biography.com/dictator/rafael-trujillo.
?What do you think that the Renaissance and Reformation teach you about the world, history, ideas, and humanity?
The renaissance, or rebirth as it literally means, was a period in human history in which many individuals expressed themselves in new ways, including but not limited to, art, literature, math, and music.
In general, the renaissance has a few main ideas and focuses. The first focus is on humankind and individualism. The focus on humankind describes the humans capacity to create. The term Man is the measure was used by Protagoras, a greek philosopher--The significance of the time period of the ancient Greeks will be mentioned later. The focus of individualism led to the appreciation of the human form. This caused the art of the time to closely examine the musculature and the minute details of the human anatomy.
The second focus of the renaissance was the return to the old, great, ideas. This is why the man as the measure is focused on, because it came from the classic Greco-Roman ideas. Those ideas were, at the time, over a century old.
The renaissance led into another period of time known as the reformation. The reformation was a period in which Martin Luther presented criticisms--at least 95 of them--about the catholic church. Luthers criticisms of the church can be summarized in three points: the sale of indulgences, money to ensure that you go to heaven regardless of your sins, is bad; the pope has no power over purgatory, a non-physical limbo lobby to wait for heaven; and, connected to the first point, the indulgences distract from an individuals true salvation for heaven. However, Martin Luther was not the first to have these ideas.
There was another man, named NAME, who came before Martin Luther. But, his complaints fell on deaf ears. This was due to the fact that the time period when NAME spoke out was not ready to act on what he had to say. However, the  reformation was the right time for Martin Luther due to one invention: the Gutenberg printing press. The printing press was the first major catalyst of the spread of information. One of the books that the press printed was the Gutenberg Bible. Previously, only wealthy members of society and religious figures could read the bible due to the expense it took to craft them. However, with the rapid export of bibles from the press, now regular folk could gain access to the text of the bible. Luther noted that many of the claims of the church had no evidence in the bible. So, when everyone got ahold of the bible, they could see that Luthers claims were true. The bibles were also later translated into German from Latin so that even those without education in latin could read them.
	
	One question that can be asked from these events is: what was the impetus? In other words, what is the cause of the renaissance and the reformation. Then, how does understanding the cause help to understand the patterns of human cognitive revolutions.
	To begin with, it is important to mention that there is no one sole factor that caused either the renaissance not the reformation. However, to reiterate and add a couple major factors: Martin Luthers ideas being spread via the Gutenberg printing press; the retrogression to the Greco-Roman ideas and humanism caused people to see the value in the individual; and The support from powerful figures such as the Medici family who funded many renaissance art pieces.
These factors can be somewhat over-simplified to easily view a picture of the ingredients for a shift in the zeitgeist of human ideas. One element was the technology. The invention of the printing press allowed for the spread of information. Another example of technology is the computer, and how it contributed to the space race, which was a battle between two global superpowers, which happen to be countries--so you would be right to think the word nationalism--to display dominance.
Another element is the idea itself. Are the changes plausible? One man, who goes by the alias Vermin Supreme, has ran for president in the state of Massachusetts for over thirty years has pitched radical ideas such as a pony identification program in which citizens would need ponies and their DNA as identification. This idea of pony identification isnt feasible and so it wouldn't yield any change in the ideas of voters. Sometimes, the ideas of individuals are good ideas, however, the time period is not right for change to occur. This can be seen in the example of NAME. persons such as this can be thought of as ahead of their time or futurists.
Furthermore, the idea has to be noticed by a person in power, at least before the time of the internet. This is because the power of an individual changes based on time period. So, during the 1600s, it would have been necessary to have power figures either support or notice a change. Otherwise the idea of change could not be spread. The only other option would be to revolt against those in power. However, that takes a great deal of organization and a clear goal.
Finally, on a more abstract level that is not just relevant to human cognitive revolutions, ?The Nurses Lament
The hours of the night are growing short,
And yet she asks of me the news of love,
That Romeo in her mind makes consort,
But she hath only chattered from above.
With him her mood an ardent river flow,
Yet talk of marriage could be jeopardy,
The fate of Job neer wanes his love, oh no,
Such quick conclusions lead to locks, not keys.
I nursed a girl, not woman, mercy me,
Oh, when and how did she become a dame?
Those girls who grow too fast no good will be,
Her foolish fancies lead her to the same.
And then again, when two fit like a glove,
I must extol the ways of budding love.
?Draft Count: 801, Final Count: <=641
Add dramatic irony
See
Hear
Feel
Taste/Smell
Alex Lipson
Brian Crawford
English 100
29 May 2020
Hope
Echo! She called. Echo, echo, echo Silence swept over the emptiness like waves in the middle of the ocean.
Okay, so we can turn around now? The boy asked. He reached for his feet. He felt his legs, arms, hands. He checked his head. Im going to snap the torch, He said. He closed his eyes. 
Not yet. She whispered. We only have one.
It will last long enough, right? He took a deep breath and his hair stood on end. Her fading voice called, Echo!
Come here, come here! He shouted. She rolled her eyes in the dark, Where?
Follow my voice, he said twice. She crawled toward him, sliding her hands on the ground. Preoccupied with getting to him, she planted her hands and feet onto the cold ground. Then, one hand slipped and touched nothing, and the rest of her followed into the emptiness. The darkness consumed the sound of her crash. Keep following my voice, he continued. Hello? His hands shook. He decided to go to her instead.
She blinked her. She groaned and grabbed her arm. She planted her feet and arms on firm ground. As she stood up, she probed above her head. She held her shoulder and rotated her arm around, wincing in pain. She tenderly touched her elbow and then brought her fingers to her mouth, blood. She shivered, plodded forward, and stumbled. She rolled from her knees to the ground. She curled up and closed her eyes again. Then, snapped open her eyes. She could see a steady warm orange glow illuminating the top of the rocks. She shuffled herself to a standing position and looked up. Stupid! She called up to the light. Thatll last us another ten minutes, tops.
Hello! He called again. His chest was pounding up and down.
You can stop whining now, Im coming. She responded, Just keep your torch over me. He furrowed his eyebrows and moved his had toward the unlit flare in his pocket. She looked up, but the light evaporated.
Take my hand, he said. He reached out and grabbed a skinny cold limb. He sniffed and scrunched his nose, I think you fell in something. He hoisted the arm toward him, falling backward. Then, an eerie green light flickered on and revealed a tall crooked figure. The green light was protruding from its head like the lure of an anglerfish. The boy laid frozen in place. He released his grip on the alien arm. His hands shook again. The green light flickered and produced a scratch, and the creature was gone.
	Im waiting, she called. He scampered to go help. This time, he felt her warm, human arm, and gripped it with all his might.
	I He began but was cut off by a screeching, ear-splitting scream that shot off the walls of the cave. Can you The noise attacked again. Hear too? He asked with his voice shaking. There was no response.
The air cooled and condensed around her. She turned around and squinted her eyes. The rocks scraped and she slipped. A cold wind whistled above her head. She stared down at the ground, and a green light produced a flickering shadow of her head. She rolled over with her back to the ground to see a tall figure standing above her. The light flickered off. The green light turned back on and she stared straight into the creatures nebulous eyes. She screamed, the noise echoed off the walls, filling the darkness.
He covered his ears as a shriek crashed across the walls, ceilings, and floors. Hope, he cried. She heard the boys voice, calling her name.
Im right here. She said. But the boy shook his head. The green glow illuminated the tears on his face.
Good morning! Said a voice with a green headlamp. You should be more careful next time. The green light was drowned out by the crisp morning sunlight. The boy was lifted and set on the fresh grass. He looked up at the bright yellow sun, and it heated his face. Now this is very important, the boy was told, Was there anyone else with you?
No. All I had was this flare. He reached into his pocket, but there was no flare.?A door opens, and Inerae blinks back their tears. They walk forward, their body trembling as they put on the plain white ceremonial gown that glimmers with a papery sheen. The fine fabric feels vast, cold and hollow. They descend into the courtyard below. Their eyes drift over the other students, most of whom are crying as well, there is a girl dressed in a coppery shawl comforting a weeping girl in a sky blue dress. There is a boy wearing an impeccable black robe maintaining a grim smile, his eyes devoid of compassion, and many more strange students. The girl in copper glances toward Inerae, her brow furrowed.
Youre shaking, are you alright Inerae? 
Inerae looks down. You know whats wrong, why dont you pester someone else they spit out.
We all went through this, you should talk about it with your friends the girl offers.
My only friends are the Spirits, and the only way to reach them is to repeat the ceremony. With that, Inerae turns from the courtyard.  
	A door opens, and Inerae walks from the school, their body numb. they drift along the hard packed roadways in silence, cold on their bare feet, until they reach a temple of stone and wood that gazes downwards with the force of judgement. A chill wracks Ineraes slender form as they enter the building that only ereyesterday had thrummed with a mute choir of unmistakable majesty, lending the stones the warmth and love of life. Inerae steps up to the altar, faltering as the imagery on the walls crowds around them, the paintings of animals, the incense, the sacrificial knife on the altar. The symbology is contradictory, somehow. A folded piece of paper on the altar drags Inerae from their contemplative stupor, the list of evening prayers. They would have to lead the service later this evening, as traditional for one who has returned from the ceremony. But how could the proper song reach so distant a locale, how could the Voice echo from forever? Inerae collapses to their knees and weeps, for they know that Spirit had abandoned their people long before anyone could ever have imagined.. Inerae rises, glowering at all the carvings and paintings around them. they retrieve the ceremonial knife and ascend, purpose guiding their footfalls, to the carvings of the nine prophets. Inhaling, they let the emptiness collapse upon their knife, which glows and flashes in response to the light. They plunge the blade into the carvings, one by one, letting the fire of rage become the fire of light until they take a stand among the shattered pieces of mistake after mistake after mistake. It takes them far too long to come to the realization that they have been sobbing. The broken head of Malkuth, the ninth prophet, examines them with quiet reproach, and Inerae feels the cold of the temple seething and boiling. Ineraes teeth begin to chatter, as they stagger down to the center of the temple, its almost as if there is a weight atop the world as everything compresses and falls. Soon, there is nothing but cold to illuminate the mind and body.
	A door opens, and Inerae is once again a crumpled piece of paper falling up the streets of the city. Everything seems to rise as if reaching for the light that cannot be found here. There could not be another explanation, not one that they would accept. Today, any direction they walk they descend ever towards their school and its wood bound doors. They press into the university and towards the passageway leading back to the ceremony, just to find that still waiting there is the student with the impeccable black robes and the grim smile. 
You turned back. he says 
As I expected. Those whose eyes cannot see beyond the radiance and whose ears are deafened by paeons of exultation can never resist returning to the wilderness. 
Inerae clenches their teeth and mutters Why didnt you leave, if you are so obsessed with logic and reasoning?
Every action we take contributes more to our story, but who is there to read it when you are dead and gone? I will be waiting by the doorway, transcribing your soul within a black bound tome. I look forward to reaping the fruits of your nescience. The boy says. Then he grins with an awful finality. There is no lock that blocks your path, Inerae''. Inerae glares at him, exhales, and turns towards the doorway, beginning a long chant. The boy walks over to the courtyard, then turns back around to watch. Ineraes chant rises in volume, each word drawn from the memories they had formed over many days of exacting practice and rote repetition. It flows into the door and fades away, and a silence permeates the room for a brief spell of time. Inerae looks up at the door, quite simple for so important a passageway, and acknowledges with care that it is almost certain that they will never return to this space. The boys calm voice repeats itself at them, as well as the girl with the copper shawls empathetic nagging. Their hand reaches for the door, the boy reaches for his book, the fine paper hungering for ink.
	A door opens, and a light floods the room and causes the ground to tremble, the boy closes his eyes for a moment, Inerae breathes, and everything ends.
?SMALL COUNTRY ESSAY TO-DOs:
1.Eliminate rough transitions.
2.Fix spelling errors.
3.Add context about the novel.
4.Smooth over awkward sentences.
5.Comment on the wider significance of my observations in BP1.
6.Develop BP2.
7.Analyze quotes.
8.Avoid expressions such as, At first Glance, but with deeper inquiry.
9.Make connections from sentence to sentence and paragraph to paragraph, making the essay more cohesive.
10.Fix pronoun-antecedent disagreements.
Luca Millard-Kish
Brian Crawford
E100
1/13/20
Symbolism In Gal Fayes Small Country
A story without symbols is like a winter without snow. A symbol is a concrete thing or action that represents an abstract idea. Stories without them can drag by, just like winters with no sign of snowfall, but a story with symbols hold the excitement of a snowflake; each one is unique and completely different. Symbols work by figuratively tying the physical characteristics of an object, the size, smell, or texture, to a window across an alleyway by a clothesline, and fastening the other side to an abstract idea, the hanging flower bed across the alley, twenty feet up and fifteen feet over, to create a place on which to hang your story. There are different kinds of symbols; both conventional and personal. A conventional symbol, like a dove, a cracked mirror, or an apple, can easily be recognized by the reader, and its significance to the story can be shallow. A personal symbol holds importance to the author, and might not be immediately noticed by the reader, but that doesnt mean its not there. With personal symbols, their multi referentiality requires the reader to pursue knowledge outside of the story for the symbol to come across in all the ways the author intended. When trying to recognize a symbol, you have to follow your gut instinct. Then, try to find ideas and quotes to support your claim. If the characteristics of the object are also shared with an emotional state, a mental state, or any other abstract concept, you can assume that the author placed it there on purpose as a symbol. Symbols help to tell a story by letting your reader interpret scenes in different ways based on how much prior knowledge they have about the symbol. A story that uses symbols very effectively is Small Country, by Gal Faye, an example of a coming-of-age journey that works with symbolism to highlight important scenes. In Small Country, Gal Fayes adroit use of symbolism helps to show Gabriels, the main characters, developing sense of identity during mental, physical, political, or emotional shifts.
As Gabriels reality shifts around him, one thing stays the same. He lives on a street in Bujumbura, Burundi, but its not just a regular street; he lives on a cul-de-sac. When you enter the cul-de-sac, the first impression is of a community. Everyone lives in close proximity, and theres a sense of comfort. The impasse - the cul-de-sac where all five of us lived - was the zone we knew best. (55)  Despite being content with the comfort of his street and home, Gabriels mother, Maman, and his father, Papa, start to have trouble with their relationship, and eventually, they split up. This creates a chasm in Gabriels identity because his family was the glue that held everything together for so long.  As tension grows, Gabriel wants to hide from the horrors of genocide and the crack in his family and hopes his country will heal and his family will go back to how it was. This yearning sense of nostalgia is buried deep in Gabriels heart throughout the book. Although he always wants things to go back to how they were, another, ever-changing, aspect of Gabriels identity is his gang; five boys who live in his cul-de-sac and are like a family to him once Maman and Papa split. We knew all the hiding places in our cul-de-sac, and we wanted to stay there for the rest of our lives, all five of us, together. (63) This quote shows that Gabriel was content with his life. Later in the book, once he starts to read books, and his view of the world broadens, the dead-end street, the cul-de-sac, where he lives starts to make him feel trapped. For the first time in my life I felt suffocated by our dead-end street, where my worries went round in circles. (140) Gabriels worries about his family, friends, and country cant escape from his dead-end street. But one thing unlocks the world to him. It opens once hes introduced to the endless source of knowledge that comes from books and his view of the world is amended. From Gabriels mental shift throughout the book and the fact that Gal Faye writes that Gabriel lives in a cul-de-sac, we can conclude that the cul-de-sac is meant to symbolize both the physical and mental confines of Gabriels world. What this example shows in relationship to the story is that to convey an idea where words fall short, Gal Faye uses symbolism, a picture, to make Gabriels transformation come to life. What this shows in the context of the real world is that there is always more to learn if you keep striving.
Throughout the book, both Gabriels physical and political identity shift. An example of this is when Maman travels to Rwanda during the genocide. When she returns, shes emaciated and completely transformed. The effects of war broke her, and she says, referring to the house she saw, But in the house there were still those four stains of the floor. Huge stains where they had lain for three months. I scrubbed and scrubbed and scrubbed with water and a sponge. But the stains wouldnt go. (156) In the context of war, this symbol of a permanent stain shows the lasting impact of violence and hatred. In another scene, Gabriel is faced with the choice either to kill or not to kill. If he doesnt throw the Zippo lighter into the car with a person in it, his family is in danger, but if he does, his identity is. In the end, he decides that the innocence and safety of his family are of greater importance, and Faye writes, I tossed the Zippo lighter and the car caught fire. (172) This indelible act of violence contradicts his growing sense of agency, but more importantly, it shows that his identity has become strong enough to withstand the blow to his morals when his family is on the line. The Zippo lighter is used to symbolize the mindless killing of people, and the distance from which one can kill, making it a venial offense rather than a crime. From these two examples, we can conclude Gal Faye uses symbolism to show the physical and political shift in Gabriels identity as he starts to find his own voice.
	Gabriels identity changes over the course of the book, but the weight of different symbols do too. The juxtaposition between the two major incidents in the book involving water is alarming, but nothing is hidden from the reader about the incidents significance to Gabriels development, they just need to look back at the two occurrences more carefully. It then becomes apparent that water is used to symbolize clarification, cleansing, or even a baptism. Francis, Gabriels adversary, invites himself to Gabriels eleventh birthday party and gets in a terrible fight with him and his friends. By the river, Francis attempts to drown Gabriel and his best friend Gino with animosity. A hand dragged us over to the rivers edge and Francis plunged our heads in the brown silty waters. (102) The water was dirty and polluted, adulterated by waste and runoff. Gabriel was forced into it. This dirty water is a symbol. Later in the book, once Francis becomes part of Gabriels friend group, they all go to a swimming pool during the turmoil. Gabriel goes over to the high-dive, determined not to look craven in front of Francis and Gino, and begins to climb the ladder. From the top of the diving area, I could see Bujumbura, the vast plain and the age-old mountains of Zaire on the other side of the blue expanse that was Lake Tanganyika. I was standing naked above my city and a tropical rain was washing over me, thick as curtains, caressing my skin. (128) Gabriel willingly jumps. What this shows is that it just took time for Gabriel to accept his cleansing, and when the time was right, Gal Faye uses the symbol of clean water to reinforce the emotional shift that Gabriel undergoes.
My father told me that on the day men stop waging war on one another, it will snow over the tropics. (161) Just as the hot skies of Bujumbura would struggle to produce snow, Gabriel struggles to find his sense of identity over the course of the book. First, his family breaks apart. Then, his friend group crumbles because the pressures of the genocide create a chasm between those who want to fight and those who dont.  Gaby, this is war, said Gino, sounding exasperated. Were protecting our street, because if we dont, theyll kill us. When are you going to understand? What world are you living in? [Gaby] Were just a bunch of kids. Nobodys asking us to fight, or steal, or have enemies.  (153) From this excerpt of a truculent fight between best friends, you can see the divide of a controversial issue. And as if his parents divorce and the loss of his best friend werent enough, finally, his war-torn country collapses. In the end, Gabriel discovers that he has to find an identity outside of other people, and only then will he feel a sense of completeness and agency over his own life. In a letter at the end of the book, he writes, Its been snowing for days and nights over Bujumbura. (174) Although the world may never be at peace as his father said, the turbulence of Gabriels internal war has ended. He found an identity in himself. Gal Faye uses snow to symbolize a blanket that covers up Gabriels suffering. This is the most poignant, moving symbol in the entire book. From all of the previous arguments and examples, especially this one, two things can be concluded about how to effectively use symbols to tell stories. First, use them judiciously. If a story is full of symbols, they start to lose their impact, and the reader becomes bored by the monotony. Second, use a variety of symbols. Some symbols can be cliche and overused, or shallow, so think of symbols that give the story a clothesline, strung across an alleyway, to hold the story up rather than let it fall fifteen feet. A symbol with a limpid and easily accessible connection to the story holds far less gravity than a multifaceted symbol that requires the reader to think in authentic and original ways to recognize the relationship. With a less conventional symbol, the reward the reader gets upon discovering its meaning allows them to receive an understanding of the story that they didnt see the first time. Gal Faye uses these two techniques for symbol use very effectively to show shifts in Gabriels developing identity in the book Small Country.
?It was a quintessentially dark and stormy night. It seemed as if the clouds were grimacing at the poor craftsman who was meticulously scrutinizing over a wooden doll with his well practiced and adroit fingers. The craftsman, being the benevolent citizen that he was, had plans of giving the wooden doll to the little child next door. While the townsfolk might not have thought it feasible, the craftsmans insidious plan had the slightest intimation of duplicity. When the wooden doll was complete, the craftsman went next door to give it to the child. The child, all of two years old, adulterated with greed, gave it only a cursory inspection before forcefully taking the doll. Not much more has to be said about the on goings of that night, except that after playing with the doll, the child became unkempt and dangerous; some might even go as far as muscid. That night, the holocaust that followed left the childs house smoldering.  
The child, however, although she had put the townsfolk in jeopardy, was impervious to the damage she had caused that night. The Craftsman extolled the young girl profusely, but the child retrogressed back to normality with time. The effects of the wooden doll began to wear off. Unsatisfied, the craftsman was averse to the idea that his duplicitous scheme hadnt acted as an impetus to further the childs muscid tendencies. That night, while he washed his face in tepid water, he had a terrible, yet amicable idea...
?On the Basis of Trust
Lets start with the creation of humans beings. A human soul is founded on collective love, trust, and agreement. Through the process of reproduction, two humans have an immense capacity for good. Think about that for a second There is such a strong connection and goodness within two hearts at the same time, that they can will another life into existence. Humans, from the minute they are conceived of, have the capacity for good. We see this in the love of a mother and father to their child and from a sibling to another sibling, from a friend to a friend and from those who have been challenged yet have still come together on a basis of trust.
The capability of trust defines humans as good. Humanity, defined by the collection of a group of individual humans, has a great capacity for good in the world. Their innate connection to one another through relationships highlights the many ways they portray these beneficial traits. A striking example of trust and cooperation between humans is the feat of sending the first person into outer space. The engineer needed to trust the mathemetician, the mathemetician needed to trust themselves, the astronaut needed to trust the whole operation and believe that in the event of an emergency, everyone would come together, no matter their backgrounds, politics, or culture, and help bring them back to earth safely. Love, trust, and connection are contagious, and upon the reentry, of the first people in space, back into the atmosphere, the whole world celebrated in unified trust and cooperation.
Yet another example of this incredible connection and trust of humanity is the awareness about the environment. Things are going in dangerous directions with the climate, and people have come together in the joint belief and hope for something that matters to them. This is our only planet as far as we know, and we might as well take care of it. The band of scientists, researchers, activists, and environmentalists that have swung whole-heartedly towards this crisis are an example of the shared love and goodness of humanity. Peoples collective love of animals and the environment is inspiring to say the least. The public involvement and action continues to highlight the potential for society. 
These two examples of limitless hope and trust are inspiring, but, there is no light without the dark. The dark in this situation comes in the disguise of fear. Fear stirs up trust, love, and connection into the pot of society and burns it because the flame is too hot. Fear comes from a feeling of threatened safety. This comes from the pressures of a racist, xenophobic, and homophobic society. No one should feel the need to be afraid. Therefore, no one should have to endure the burden of anger, hate, jealousy, and discontent. The lack of trust leads to fear which fuels a nation, that stands proud and free, with equality for everyone, to prejudge people who are different than themselves. What other excuse is there for violence and discrimination other than the fact that in the minds of people, there is a difference between people? Because of this difference, people fracture into an us versus them argument that incites fear from a lack of trust.
Paulo Coelho said, None of us knows what might happen even the next minute, yet still we go forward. Because we trust. Because we have Faith. Because none of us know what might happen and because we are all in this together, our capacity for trust moves us forward as a united population. We have faith in each other to be trustworthy and good from the minute were born and then grow up to pass the torch of trust to our children. If we continuously fuel this flame of love and trust than humanity remains good.
Those who grow up and are raised with a lack of trust and love in their family environment tend to pass along that insecurity through their own parenting because they never got the love they needed. While this is a devastating truth about humanity, the stronger and more poignant integrity of humanity is the capacity for love and trust even in the face of such hate and neglect. This, above all, defines humanity as good. Their strength and union, understanding of themselves and others, has and will bring the world together. According to Etimonline.com, the word trust comes  from Old Norse treysta to trust, rely on, make strong and safe. By looking at the root of a word, many different facets become visible. This idea of reliance and cooperation that came from the Norse people still rings true in society today. By making someone feel strong and safe, you pass along the beauty of humanitys potential within your actions. For humanity to be viewed as good, it is crucial for people to make a point of working to trust and value each other. Through united trust, humanity can be good.
Lets end at the rightful place to end, the passing of those we love. Someone who has been loved and has loved passes in the presence of a family that they have curated over many years; a family of unconditional love and trust. Although there is potential for distrust in humanity, trust and love come first and last. From the minute a soul enters the world, they are expecting love and trust in return for their own. Not all young children receive the care they so require, but that is not because people are bad, thats merely because this tragic truth was the same for a mother or father. If everyone feels safe and unthreatened, this feeling gets passed along down generation and through the ages. The initial capacity and yearning for love and trust means that humanity is good from the very beginning, and no matter what makes waves in their safety, which is bound to happen, it can be stripped down to a truly good human. Referring back to humanity as a group of individuals, it becomes clear that if each human has capacity for good, from their first breath, then all of humanity is inherently good.?Luca Millard-Kish
Brian Crawford
E100
29 May 2020
Initial Word Count: 836
Final Word Count: 616
Senses: Sight Sound Smell Taste Touch
The Sign
Just close the door. 
He spat on the trophy and rubbed the glass with his teeshirt. 
Silent, she hoisted the shopping bags and reached for the door handle. 	
What the hell, its freakin cold in here. Set the bags down and close the Goddamn door! he said from the couch. He took a swig from the bottle sitting on the end table.
	The bags slipped from her hands. Two eggs cracked. She fumbled to wipe up the mess.
	The door is still wide open. What, are you deaf? he slammed the bottle onto the table and rubbed, brow furrowed, the spot where his name was engraved. There was dust in the crevices that got packed down as he rubbed.
	Im sorry, I just I mean well, I just cant reach the handle, and the wind is  she sobbed.
	She fell over sobbing. After taking a shaky breath, she pulled herself back up and looked straight at him, searching. From inside the house, she turned and looked through the doorway in desperation. She could make out the bright yellow sign with the arrow on it. A stream of drool slid down his chin and his eyes glazed over and he surrendered.
---------------
Hey, hows it goin? she asked.
He was waiting at a booth just smiling at her. The chimes rang as the heavy wooden door closed behind her with a thud. She struggled to take off her coat, so he stood to help her.
 Its going pretty well. he shrugged. She saw his bottom lip quiver and he looked as if he was four years old. She saw him paste on a smile within seconds.
Well, how did the race go? she asked.
I didnt win, but I mean, I guess it was fine, he replied.
---------------
	Screams came from the bathroom. 
	Help me! she cried, gasping for breath.
	He was in his room, searching for his old skis under his bed. The front door was bolted shut.
	Im coming, ok? Will you just give me a minute?! he yelled from the other room.
	She sat there. Cold sweat soaked her tee-shirt, her stomach cramped, and blood pooled around her. 
---------------
The sun tried to shine through the clouds, and both of their families were there. The aroma of freshly mown grass filled the air. She wore her light green dress like a costume. His suit hung on him like a uniform, still creased, the tip of the rental receipt just visible from his pocket.
Do you, for better or worse, richer or poorer, and in sickness and in health, take him, as your lawfully wedded husband?
I I do
---------------
	Do I? Do I, huh? Do I have to ask you again? I told you to close the door. Are you worthless? He accented the last word, and it cut in deep.
	You know what, she managed to spit out, I walked six miles to the store by myself to get the groceries, and when I come back, you wont even come and help me? The wind hadnt stopped. The rain hadnt ceased. But, the door was still wide open. She looked at him, and her expression changed. The photograph of him skiing down a hill through racing flags stood on the shelf. Through the storm, she could make out the bright yellow sign with the arrow on it. A tear slid down her cheek and the salty-sweet liquid pooled on the side of her mouth. 
She stepped back. From the outside of the house, she could reach the door handle. She grabbed it and swung the door closed. Through the storm, she could just make out the bright yellow sign with an arrow facing away from town.   
?Mutation and Evolution of Viruses
During this stressful time in the world right now, it is easy to get overwhelmed by the amount of information coming our way. There is so much contradictory information on the internet and its hard to know who to trust. Fortunately, there have been countless other pandemics in history from which we can learn. We are actually very lucky to be in this pandemic with all of the knowledge we have about viruses. In order to clear up some of the confusion on how a virus spreads, and what is needed to stop it, we have to understand the basics of mutations and virus evolution. 
	One of the most important questions is about how a virus spreads. Just as human cells have genetic material in the form of DNA, Covid-19 has RNA. In fact, there are about 30,000 letters (A, U, G, C) in RNA, which translate into various kinds of proteins. Amino acids are encoded by 3 letters of RNA, and proteins are formed from long chains of amino acids. The RNA gets copied in order to spread the virus throughout the hosts body. In this process it is highly likely that a typo or mutation will occur somewhere in the RNA. Most of the time they are harmless, and dont change the overall shape and function of the protein. This is called a silent mutation and it happens when the change in the letter results in the same amino acid. For example, both acu and acg result in the same amino acid (Threonine). On the other hand, there are non-silent mutations which code a different amino acid, though it does not usually result in a drastic change in the function of the protein. Though mutations are mostly negligible, they are imperative for tracking how a virus spreads.
	In the process of copying RNA, it is safe to assume that there will only be a few mutations which wont affect the virus as a whole. Overtime, more and more mutations will accumulate in the RNA, and the more time passes, the more it will differ from the original RNA. In fact, for each virus there is a calculated mutation rate for the average number of mutations over time. This means that the genetic makeup of the virus can give information on how much time passed since the original virus was found. By looking at the specific mutations in the RNA we can also trace the persons infection to its source by comparing it to the RNA of other infected people. Since the mutations of the infected persons virus build off of the already mutated virus of the source, we can track which people got infected from who. This is why it is especially important to test as early as possible in order to successfully track the mutating virus. Mutations can also show which parts of the virus genome are more flexible to mutations. Parts of the genome with many mutations can handle those mutations without causing harm to the virus. On the contrary, less mutations means that those parts are more likely to destroy the virus if mutated. 
	While observing data on Covid-19, along with the constant news coverage on overcrowded hospitals it is easy to assume that the virus is one of the deadliest viruses out there. This could not be further from the truth, in fact the reason why the virus has spread so rapidly is due to the fact that it isnt very deadly. From the perspective of the virus, its main goal is to keep the viral lineage for as long as possible, not to kill as many people as possible. Once someone has developed symptoms from the virus, it is no longer a hospitable place for the virus to live. Yes, the virus can still develop and eventually kill the host but it wont continue the lineage after the host has died; it would need to find a new host. So, it makes more sense for the virus to be highly transmittable, thus keeping the viral lineage. It is also an advantage for the virus to produce mild symptoms, making it more likely for the host to keep in close proximity with other people. This is yet another reason why social distancing is so crucial to help lower the rate of infections from Covid-19. 
	It is important to trust what researchers and scientists say about the pandemic, but what is helpful is knowing the reasons behind what they say. Even just understanding the basics of virus evolution and mutations is enough to see why the government is ordering social distancing and giving widespread testing. Science can also help disprove the common misconceptions about the virus, and relieve some anxiety around it. Especially now in this global pandemic, its harder to connect with our friends and family like we used to. Though it seems as if we are all losing our connection to each other, we are all united through our common goal in overcoming the pandemic.
	
Works Cited
Corum, Jonathan, and Carl Zimmer. How Coronavirus Mutates and Spreads. The New York Times, The New York Times, 30 Apr. 2020, www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/30/science/coronavirus-mutations.html.
Bedford, Trevor.  Cryptic Transmission of Novel Coronavirus Revealed by Genomic Epidemiology. Cryptic Transmission of Novel Coronavirus Revealed by Genomic Epidemiology, 2 Mar. 2020, bedford.io/blog/ncov-cryptic-transmission/.
Evolution from a Virus's View. Evolution from a Virus's View, Dec. 2007, evolution.berkeley.edu/evolibrary/news/071201_adenovirus.
Virus Mutation. Virus Mutation - an Overview | ScienceDirect Topics, www.sciencedirect.com/topics/neuroscience/virus-mutation.
?The maestro sat diligently at the piano. Gray clouds loomed outside and the wind whipped through the frigid air. He had been sitting there for hours, musing the source of creativity and hoping for the spark. He was so wrapped up in his thoughts that he was unaware of the inclement weather outside. 
He sat alone, alienated from the rest of the world, except for the rain that had managed to slip through a crevice in the ceiling and was quietly harassing him as it dripped, in a rhythmic motif, onto his left shoulder. He quietly began humming a melody, negligible at first, but as the rain continued, the dripping became an artifice that gave way to a symphony. Exhilarated by his discovery, the maestro began to rapidly scribble in his notebook. His consciousness sojourned in a state of unprecedented discovery and exploration. A field that had laid fallow for months now gave way to new inspiration.
?Instructions:
You've learned about some aspects of the War on Terror. You have studied your own war extensively.
Now I want you to write 500 or so words about how you understand the impacting of framing something as a "war on", how you understand each conflict, and what connections you see.
Specific examples are important.
The main goal here is for you to show your ability to talk about framing, connections, and discussing nuance. 
Here is something to consider.
Wars are waged with a goal in mind.
Why are these wars being fought?
Who benefits from having violence or disagreement framed as a war? With the War on Terror, there is now a never ending conflict that justifies the use of executive power. That power will exist as long as the war does.
All of these wars are impossible to end as there is no victory. Consider how your wars can fit into this framework.	First of all, the War on Terror, compared with all of the other wars, is most like a war, given the use of violence and battle. However, the metaphoric use of war fairly represents the conflicts present in each other war on. The term war has several connotations, the first of which is a long-lasting conflict between sides--typically two sides, since humans are excellent crafters of dichotomy, involving multiple battles, with some sort of casualties. Regardless of whether the battles are physical, and the casualties are human lives, the United States has and continues to wage war on both Terror, and Science.
	
To begin with, in terms of the War on Terror, the goal has evolved somewhat over time. Specifically from the United Statess perspective, the first goal after 9/11 was revenge. The narrative was, we were attacked by terrorists, so lets kill terrorists and stop terror. The first message, delivered by President Bush, was more-or-less, Were coming for terrorists, dont stop us. And, initially, most other countries were in support of this goal. Following the United Statess retaliation, the War on Terror became a lot more complicated.
The history within the middle east, such as the Soviet-Afghan war, had formed many different factions and groups. Some groups, such as Al-Qaeda, were ill intentioned and harmful. So, Al-Qaeda was, arguably, a good target for the United States to combat Terror. However, the story is never that clear-cut and simple. The United States wanted to hunt down and seek out terror by finding and dealing with terrorists. The US wanted to stop terror, a noble goal, but their means, such as capturing and torturing innocents in a gray-area-with-the-law zone in hopes that they will one day die and be forgotten, were not universally beneficial.
However, Presidents Bushs word choice of War on Terror, was beneficial toward the United States because it indicated to the American people that the United States will use whatever means necessary, often swift and violent ones--i.e. drone strikes, to kill the terrorists.
At the same time, the usage of the word war could be good for the terrorists. This is because, as a terrorist, ones goal is to cause a lasting impact and memory of terror. Given that the perpetrators of 9/11 have caused a massive shift in one of the most powerful countries in the world, and caused them to go to war on an abstract concept--a war in which they cannot win, the terrorists benefit from a war on terror too.
	
Next, calling the war on science a war makes sense because of what the war on science really is: a repeated attack by lots of entities against the ethos of facts in order to profit.
So, the first question is who are those lots of entities? Two examples of those lots are oil corporations and tobacco companies. The goal of these companies is to make money.The oil companies make money best by sticking with the effective, yet harmful, status quo of burning fossil fuels. Investing in renewable energy is costly, and financially risky, but luckily some companies are learning from the past and investing in it; and entirely new companies are being made that only work with renewable energies.
Big tobacco companies have a slightly different story. The products of tobacco companies are, mostly, addictive and harmful cigarettes. These companies dont really have room to grow in a more beneficial direction, other than to dissolve, I guess. However, the big tobacco companiess goals were to make money. There isnt a single reason for why each of these groups of companies wanted money, but it was certainly their end goal.
And, in their quest for wealth, these companies were willing to sacrifice global health, both in terms of the world and in terms of its inhabitants, in order to meet their goals. In order to meet their goals, the companies had to challenge the legitimacy of the science that said, these companies are hurting global health. Whatever challenges to the actual science, as in respectful and cogent criticisms of scientific methods and practices, were overpowered many-fold by harsh and unjustified criticisms of the credibility, and the origin, of the science that said there was a global crisis.
Like the War on Terror, the companiess original intentions were benevolent, to figure out what problems they were causing. The companies did so in order to, primarily make money, but also to address the possibility that their actions could lead to global harm. However, unlike the war on terror, the actions of the big tobacco and big oil companies devolve into a mostly universal negative: global harm. Where there was nuance in the United Statess actions in the middle east, there was less nuance in the corporationss decisions to use fake scientists and fake studies to lie to everyone saying that their actions were safe and beneficial.
However, luckily for the rest of the world, that is those who opposed the big tobacco and big oil companiess fake science, the framing of war on science suggests that the big companies are in the wrong. Science connotes truth and trust. So, if a company is attacking truth, subliminally, people will get the idea that said company is in the wrong.
Given that these wars are un-ending, so too are they ever-changing. However, even if the wars change, the framing of war on science will always present a narrative of bad companies waging war on the good and truthful science. With the war on science, there is a good and an evil, with, of course, nuance. However, in the war on terror, the sides are not clear-cut. The United States has the goal to remove terror, but in order to achieve that good goal, theyve acted that, not only can be seen as evil, are evil. Such as a drone strike on an aid worker. There will always be complications and nuance within the war on terror, but given that the war on science fits better into a dichotomy, as mentioned earlier, we can better understand this dichotomy of companies and truth.
?Rubric:
?Thesis
?Structure
?Beginning
?Middle
?End
?Evidence
?Logic
?Clarity
Points:
?Large brains
?Advantages
?Rapid societal development
?Other humanoids
?Power of language
?Human group size
?Dunbars # 150
?Bystander effect
?Conform to group
?Rapid change
?Gossip
?Trade
?Turing Test
?Family Structure
Prompt: What does it mean to be human?
The genus Homo, which, in English, means man, is the genus that encompases both Homo Sapiens and Homo Neanderthals as well as many others. Although there are many species within the genus Homo, there is only one species that is human, and that is the Homo Sapien. The Homo Sapien has many traits and characteristics that separate it from the other members of its genus. Author Yuval Noah Harari writes about the differences of the Homo Sapiens in his book, Sapiens. The Sapiens were able to rapidly alter their social structures at any point due to a change within the Sapien brain known as the Cognitive Revolution. Sapiens are able to adapt their social structures because of their revolutionary brains. This behavior was never seen from any other species within the genus Homo. These differences between Sapiens and all the other members of their genus are what makes Sapiens uniquely human.
	First of all, Sapiens--who shall be referred to as humans--are capable of creating new social structures and innovations unlike any other member of the Homo genus. Humans control their social structures on the core principle of collective imagination. (Harari 29). Humans believe in a system, such as the law, and abide by it because of their belief in its existence. Harari compares the understanding of primitive societies order being based upon belief in ghosts and spirits to modern institutions which operate on the same basis. (Harari 28). Humans use their imagined reality all the time. Ever since the Cognitive Revolution, Sapiens [humans] have been living in a dual reality. On one hand, the objective reality, [...] and on the other hand, imagined reality. The Cognitive Revolution, which occurred gradually over the course of around 30,000 years ago to 70,000 years ago is what allowed Sapiens, like no other, to produce such a vivid imagined reality. The definitive cause for the cognitive revolution is unknown but, the Cognitive Revolution was most likely caused by accidental genetic mutations which changed the inner wirings of Sapiens brains. (Harari 21). Due to their advanced global imagined reality, Sapiens could transform their social structures, the nature of their interpersonal relations, their economic activities and a host of other behaviors within a decade or two. [...] This was the key to Sapienss success. (Harari 34). In contrast, all other species of the genus were unable to adapt at such speeds. The Homo Erectus for example, had the same stone tools for around two million years. (Harari 33).
	Finally, humans were able to manipulate imagined reality quickly among all Sapiens, this allowed for them to quickly change their social structures and interpersonal relations among other core social ideas. The overall theme of rapid change in both cognitive abilities due to the Cognitive Revolution, and the social constructs due to an imagined reality, are what separates Sapiens from all other members of their genus, and what makes them human. 
However, Sapiens may have been the only ones to achieve such advances due to the fact that many of their sibling species were going extinct.
While they may have been the only ones to have done so due to their solitary existence void of any other humanoid species.
?When The Cardinal Sings	
He was ten years old and his grandma said they would be home for dinner. The night wore on as he waited upright in bed, a cello playing in the background trying to tell him something. 
Grandma entered the room with red swollen eyes and said, Oh Kieron, Im so sorry.
All he could do was look at her. The cello became quiet until he could no longer hear it. Silence. She put her hand on his and he could feel her worn soft skin on his fingers before he quickly pulled his hand away and looked at the floor. (I realize that this is backstory, but before I remove it, Id love to talk with you about effective ways of doing that. Thanks!)

He watched as the sun fell below the horizon and birds flew home to their children. He gazed out of the window and one bassoon played a pianissimo and yearning melody. Hed been standing there for thirty minutes at least, just watching the gradual drift of the sky from bright blue to yellow to orange to pink until only see the silhouettes of the trees, bordered by a thin line of golden light, were visible. 
Kieron, where are you? grandma asked in a whisper.
He was distracted by the beauty of the sunset.
The sky was turning completely dark, the most beautiful part, and he didnt want to miss it. A small bird, a flute, flew up and out of a tree and into the darkness and the contrabass and cello held a low sustained note. 
He walked through the hallway into the living room where grandma was sitting. The wooden boards drew him in as he ran his hands over the walls. 
Grandma, the sunset was magnificent this evening, you shouldve seen it! The sky wasGrandma? No, Grandma, no.
He ran outside. The night wasnt as beautiful anymore. Panicked, he ran down the street. In his terror, he kicked over an empty tin bucket carelessly sitting in the pathway. He climbed the stairs to his piano teachers house where he thought he might find help. The paint on the handrails had started to peel, and the flowers she had planted last spring were shriveled and bent, trying to carry life on their shoulders. Half asleep, his teacher opened the door. He tugged on her nightgown but didnt say anything. Confused, she slipped on her shoes and a fur coat and followed him to his house. The strings melody became more agitated while they walked back to his house. The image of his grandma sitting still on the couch flew threw his mind. 
His grandmas funeral was planned to be in two weeks. The townsfolk asked him to write a symphony, as beautiful as symphony no. 2 by Mahler, they teased,  in remembrance and honor of her, and he smiled and said that he would try.

The trees rustled outside, the smoldering fire was struggling to stay ablaze and he just sat there in a daze by the piano. His eyes began to glaze over as he scanned the room for his notebook. He sang melodies, he played them on the piano. He sang other melodies and played those on the piano. He couldnt write them down. The image of his grandma sitting still on the couch flew threw his mind again and a single tear rolled down his cheek. The English horns melody never came.
For days on end, he sat at the piano waiting, hoping to find his manuscript paper in the dim light by the piano. He shuffled over to his money box, and it was empty, the wooden bottom just looked back up at him. One evening while he ambled back to the piano with a tepid cup of rooibos tea, he looked through the frosted window and saw a cardinal perched on a tree branch. The trees were bare but they radiated beauty. The cardinal then rose into the air and flew towards the forest. He stood up and chased after it.
	A gentle dusting of snow lay on the branches, and the moon, just peeking through the clouds, cast a magical light that illuminated the whole forest. He ran further as the cardinal flew. The forest was humming with life. Squirrels darted from tree to tree, heading back homes, and a chipmunk scurried into a bush.
	As he continued after the cardinal, the snowy ground sliced at his bare feet. It felt like hot knives were piercing him with every step, but he kept running. The sky was drifting from bright blue to yellow to orange to pink until he could only see the gnarled trunks of trees on either side of him. The brass section played a fanfare and the tremolo in the string started to get louder. A flute danced above the woodwinds section as the brass died down. With a swell of the cymbals and a slowly climbing melody, a clearing in the forest began to be visible just through the settling fog.
He approached the clearing as the cardinal landed on a birch tree and began to sing; a flute, mellow like the rustling trees. He stopped running and stood still in the clearing. The forest went quiet.
	The moon smiled down on the snowy leaves and illuminated the fog that hung in the air. The audience of trees gently swayed with the music. A pack of wolves gathered around the edge of the clearing, and a cello joined the flute. A fox slinked up to listen to the cardinal and a tenor saxophone started to play. Then a moose, a bear, and a dear; a contrabassoon, the strings, and a clarinet. While the cardinal sang, the forest came to listen. A beautiful cacophony of music soared above the forest and he stood still in the clearing. 

He felt dizzy, almost foggy, as he stood still, looking out the frosted window. His body was radiating and he smiled. He ran to the piano to look for his manuscript paper. He frantically searched the house, looking under the couch, behind the piano, and under his bed. They were still gone. In a trance, he walked outside. In a nearby birch tree, there was a cardinal. Hanging by a string from one of the branches was a small leather notebook and a pen. It was silent and he looked at the cardinal. The cardinal looked back at him. He walked over to the tree, untied the notebook, and walked towards his house, never looking behind him.	
?Write 300-400 words on the following topic. Use Sapiens. Or use any text we have used in class. You can use notes. 
What did studying Rome teach you? What lessons did you learn? Why is it important? Focus on the idea of studying history teaching you something about the present. 
Come up with a thesis. Give examples that prove the thesis. Quotes are good.
Evidence:
?Battle of Cannae ultimate tactic - WWII
?Sic semper tyrannis - (Brutus) Killing kings - Assassination of Lincoln
?Social Wars - Cold War
?What is the goal of writing history?
History is a best-guess narrative of the past. It shows events and societys reactions to them. The story of Rome has many important events that are repeated later in history. Certain events from Roman history are seen as golden standards. Such events are the Battle of Cannae and the Killing of Tyrants. Romans had certain viewpoints and values which were introduced as biases when they wrote their history. Those significant events are always repeated with the intent to show the original societys values.
The Battle of Cannae occurred when Hannibal, a general who the Romans described as being the quintessential general performed a maneuver in which he manipulated the Roman forces to be encircled. With odds against him, Hannibal achieved victory against the famed Roman army. This battle was then on seen as the golden standard for battles as it was such a marvelous strategy. During World War II, Germany attempted to use the same strategy to achieve victory. Their plan was the Schlieffen Plan. Since the Germans also faced difficult odds, they resorted to the golden standard of the Battle of Cannae. However, the Germans did not succeed--this was likely because the fighting styles of 1905 CE and 215 CE were very different.
Throughout Roman history, the struggle between dictatorship and democracy swung back and forth like a pendulum. This conflict was exemplified the Social Wars. The same conflict was seen in the Cold War between the United States and Russia. The U.S. stood for democracy and Russia--while ostensibly identifying as communist--was a dictatorship. Both countries were fighting to decide which system of control was best.
Another element of dictatorship that is seen both in Roman and Contemporary history, it the end of the dictators term. This often happens through assassinations by a revolt. History was copied in such a close manner during the assassinations of dictators, that even the same words were used: Sic semper tyrannis, meaning, Thus always [I bring death to] tyrants. Two assassinations in Roman history were executed by a member of the same family of Brutus, the more famous of which was the assassination of Julius Caesar. The contemporary example of this event was the assassination of President Lincoln. The man who killed him also said the phrase.
Many events in history, especially Roman history, were repeated by others. This is because of the goal of writing history. Events in history tell a story, but they also show the viewpoints and values of the society that wrote them. When one decides to act as others did, they are taking upon the values that are represented in history. The German army wanted to be seen as a keen and powerful force, just as Hannibal was seen. The United States values democracy. John Wilkes Booth, who assassinated Lincoln thought he was acting like a dictator and impeding upon his freedom. Studying history is important in order to understand the values of different societies. If those values are known, the future of societies that share the same values can be predicted.?"The Way gathers in emptiness alone. Emptiness is the fasting of the mind."?Prompt: Talk about one religion, and how it is different from all the others (what makes it special essentially)
Unlike many other religions, Taoism has no rules or objectives or Gods
Abrahamic, Rules: How to act, What to eat, Objective: Be a good person? Bible Isaiah 1:17 Learn to do good; seek justice, correct oppression God: One God
Confuscianism, Rules: Social Hierarchy, Filial Piety
Buddhism, Rules: Dont desire, Objective: Remove desires
Hinduism, Rules: Follow Caste, Objective: Reach Moksha, Gods: Many
Taoism
	The Way - The Flow
	Religious texts are ambiguous in a message and employ humor
	Meant to be questioned, therefore how can there be rules "Do you know what all things agree in calling right?" - Religious text asking what are the universal morals
Potential Rebuttal
	Although some objectives can be seen based on Fasting of the mind from Chuang-tzu
		? Don't listen with your ears
		? Don't listen with your mind
		? Do listen with your spirit
		? Listening stops with the ears
		? [Thinking] The mind stops with recognition
		? Spirit is empty and waits on all things.
		? "The Way gathers in emptiness alone. Emptiness is the fasting of the mind."Humans have created many different religions, all with different rules, objectives, values, and gods. Many religions were initially developed around 400 BCE, and each religion created its own set of rules and objectives that would best guide its people. [The] emergence [of religions] was one of the most important revolutions in history, and made a vital contribution to the unification of humankind. (Sapiens 211). However, while many religions had rules and objectives and gods, there was one religion, Taoism, that does not have any of those things. Taoism is fundamentally different than all of the other religions, in that Taoism has no involvement with gods or rules or objectives.
Each religion has at least one goal for the follower, rule, or god. The three Abrahamic religions: Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, all have rules of conduct. Some of the three, mainly Judaism, focus on the material, as evidenced by the circumcision as a sacrifice to god. Christianity, however, focuses on spiritual devotion and sacrifice to god. This can be seen through the term circumcision of the heart. Islam also focuses on following the teaching of the Quran, which are the words of God. Furthermore, Judaism and Islam also have rules on dietary restriction. In terms of the objective of these three religions, the Christian Bible says, Learn to do good; seek justice, correct oppression (Bible, Isaiah 1:17). All of the Abrahamic religions have one god. That god played a role in the religious ancestors lives. Confucianism is a religion that is centered on rules. Confucianisms main teaching is Filial Piety, a son being in service to his father. Additionally, Confucianism has rules for all interactions in a social hierarchy. Buddhism is another religion with rules. While being less concrete, Buddhism says that people are suffering due to desire, so, one must not desire. When one removes desire, the can achieve the objective of Buddhism, ending suffering. Finally, Hinduism has a strict set of rules about following ones caste of life. When one follows the rules of their caste, they advance in the system. Hinduism says that there is a cyclical nature to life, and the objective is to remove ones self from the cycle, into a place called Moksha. Hinduism has many gods that can be prayed to, which will, in turn, have an effect on a persons life.
In contrast, Taoism is an ambiguous religion, that has no objectives, or strict rules, or an involvement with gods. The Tao, in Chinese, means The Way. One interpretation of Taoism is that it has one rule: follow The Way. However, this is not a rule because of the fact The Way has such a nebulous and contradicting definition, that there is no way to obey the rule of following The Tao at all.
Additionally, in its religious texts, Taoism touches on asking the questions of morals. Taoism does not provide the answer as a rule to follow, it only proposes the question, "Do you know what all things agree in calling right?" The Tao is open to any answer to what universal morals should be. The succeeding lines of the text venture into the abstract realm of questioning ones knowledge. "How would I know that? Do you know that you don't know it? (Tao Te Ching). These types of confusing questions are what make Taoism different, there is no one interpretation of the rules of Taoism, let alone the existence of rules at all. The religious text, the Chaung-Tzu, only asked the reader what morals are, it never produced a solution. Furthermore, The Tao, in Taoism, cannot be identified as one object or lesson. The opening line of the Tao Te Ching states, The Tao that can be trodden is not the enduring and unchanging Tao. The name that can be named is not the enduring and unchanging name. In essence, this line can be interpreted to mean, if one thinks they know The Way or the rules, then they do not. This type of contradiction is what makes the rules of Taoism impossible to follow.
	Additionally, Taoism has gods, but they are not important to the center of Taoism: The Tao. At one point, however, Taoism introduces some followable rules. Don't listen with your ears, listen with your mind. No, don't listen with your mind, but listen with your spirit. Listening stops with the ears, the mind stops with recognition, but spirit is empty- and waits on all things. The Way gathers in emptiness alone. Emptiness is the fasting of the mind." (Chaung-Tzu). This too can be interpreted in many ways, however, the most important part of the line is, The Way gathers in emptiness alone. This could suggest that one must follow the Buddhist teachings of removing desires, but this is only one of the many possible interpretations of Taoism.
However, regardless of the rules, objectives, or number of gods, one idea that all religions of the world have in common, is that a higher truth, that can be realized through the practice of the religion, will set you free. In some religions, this can be the following of god or gods and their words, in others, such as Taoism, it can be the following of The Tao, whatever that means.
		?What differentiates homo sapiens from other humanoids? Essentially, what does it mean to be human? 
One of the defining characteristics of homo sapiens is our ability to use our complex language to augment our understanding of the world we live in. In my mind, this idea of language presents itself in two ways. These make us different from both our ancestors and other animals.
The first way our language is different from other animals is that homo sapiens have the ability to communicate not just about threats, and where the best places for food might be, we can communicate ideas. These ideas dont even always have to be about material things. The book states, [...] fiction has enabled us not merely to imagine things, but to do so collectively. (Harari, p.25) This leads to my second point about language. While homo sapiens can communicate about imagined and real things, we also have the unique ability to gossip. Reliable information about who could be trusted meant that small bands could expand into larger bands, and Sapiens could develop tighter and more sophisticated types of cooperation. (Harari, p.24) Our gossip lead to trust which allows for groups larger than 150, Dunbars number. From an evolutionary standpoint, a bigger group with not only more strength and numbers, united by common beliefs and ideals, but also cooperation and strategic thinking, had an advantage over species that fall both under the homo genus and other predators. This ability to gossip leads to trust, or lack thereof, which also allows for trade. Like language and communication, trade is another scenario where homo sapiens used it both for materials and ideas. The trade of ideas sparks innovation which allows Sapiens to constanly be adapting, despite the fact that our DNA isn't changing. In conclusion, because of our complex and adaptable language, I think that the trade of ideas because of a mutual trust is the main phenomenon that makes us human.
?The Agricultural Revolution has had a negative effect on society. Although the effects of this mass shift in human civilization might not be obvious, there are both subtle and overt changes that took place.
Four of the main threats that came with the Agricultural Revolution are violence, fear, oppression, and the lack of diverse crops which leads to the lack of varied and important nutrients.
Violence came into the societal picture when Sapiens began to own land. Once Sapiens owned land, there was competition for the most arable, or the most expansive plot. Many anthropological and archaeological studies indicate that in simple agricultural societies with no political frameworks beyond village and tribe, human violence was responsible for about 15 percent of deaths, including 25 percent of male deaths. (Harari, P. 82) This is a large number of casualties, and it wasnt until cities and kingdoms began to form that the violence that came with ownership could be kept at bay. Despite our attempts to keep it under control, even today land is still a source of violence, and it has been the impetus for many wars.
Along with the fear of your land being taken away, a completely foreign concept, there was also fear of disease. Disease became more common once humans were domesticated by wheat and other crops. In farming villages, the probability for disease to spread was much higher than that of the foragers who were constantly relocating.
Before the Agricultural Revolution, Sapiens foraged for their own resources, but as farming became a prevalent part of human society, so did oppression. The labor-intensive work done on farms required many more workers, and the farm owners simply couldnt take care of everything by themselves. The result of this mass shift of labor was the concept that people could work for each other. This was the catalyst for slavery. Its hard to imagine a system where everyone was equal, but thats because our way of life has become so ingrained in us that we cant see how it used to be.
Lastly, with the advance of the Agricultural Revolution, farms specialized in a specific crop. This led to malnutrition. As foragers, we were used to a variety of nutrients, but during the Agricultural Revolution, our body had to adjust to a new, more simple, diet. The Agricultural Revolution certainly enlarged the sum total of food at the disposal of humankind, but the extra food did not translate into a better diet or more leisure. (Harari, P. 79) Along with the less healthy diet, the wave of farming brought uncertainty with it. If a years worth of crops failed, the sapiens had no backup. Village life certainly brought the first farmers some immediate benefits [...], yet for the average person, the disadvantages probably outweighed the advantages. (Harari, P. 82)
In conclusion, since today we appreciate a plentiful supply of food, and the bounty was curated by the Agricultural Revolution, we assume that it was a beneficial step in human history. We are blinded by the convenience and multitude, and we dont see that were now trapped in a problem of our own creation. There is no logical way to return back to how things used to be, but things cant stay how they are now. In time, well come across the next big step that hopefully improves our life more than it takes away from it.
"I have neither given nor received unauthorized help on this work."?Learn From Before
From studying the Roman Empire, the similarities between events and stories of ancient Rome and present-day America show that America is an Empire. An empire is a political order with two important characteristics. First, to qualify for that designation you have to rule over a significant number of distinct people, each possessing a different cultural identity and separate territory. [...] Second, empires are characterized by flexible borders and a potentially unlimited appetite. (Harari, 190) This means that size and flexibility are required to sustain an empire.
At the height of the Roman empire, it spanned more than five million square kilometers and encompassed a plethora of diverse cultures. One driving force for Roman expansion was the law that a Roman citizen could not be enslaved. Therefore, Rome needed to conquer other regions to sustain their way of life. While Americas reason for expansion didnt have to do with slavery, after industrialization, the demand for international markets required growth. This lead America towards imperialism, the economic, military, and cultural influence on other countries. The first appearance of American imperialism came with the Louisiana Purchase. This expansion reshaped the lives of Native Americans and forced the tradition and culture of the settlers on a previously thriving society.  "Building and maintaining an empire usually required the vicious slaughter of large populations and the brutal oppression of everyone who was left."(Harari, 193) To justify their cruelty, Americans and Romans fueled their movement towards imperialism with exceptionalism, the idea that they had a responsibility to spread their superior cultures and customs. 
When we look back through history, we see that after the glorious peak of the Roman empire, due to the rise of populism, the republic began to collapse. As America grows, we need to look back to Rome and see what could be done differently to prevent its fall. If America closes down its borders, it faces the threat of potential collapse. Cultural diversity and territorial flexibility give empires not only their unique character, but also their central role in history. (Harrari, 190) Diversity is key to sustain an empire.
History never repeats itself but it often rhymes. (Mark Twain) America is an empire, teetering on the edge of catastrophe. In 63BCE, Rome had its last chance to survive.  America, look behind you, what happened before? We dont want a rhyme, we dont have much time. The people are suffering and America is hovering,  right between glory and shame, Rome did the same. Learn from the past, it opens the door, to knowledge aplenty, and much much more.
 ?Christianity was formed from Judaism. The splitting off of Christianity from Judaism initially began in the first century of the common era in Jerusalem, which, at the time, was under Roman rule. Initially, Christianity was merely a sect of Judaism that believed in the story of Jesus. However, Christianity became independent of Judaism due to two fundamental changes: the ease of conversion and the abstraction of values. The early Christians changed Christianity to best support the needs of conversion.
First, Judaism did not seek to convert new subjects. Judaism was a tribal religion, shared between a small group of individuals. Early Christianity shared the same values as Judaism, but instead, Christians wanted to expand their religion and share it with others. Early Christians sought to convert the occupying Romans, but they ran into a problem: the Romans wouldnt accept Judaisms strict concrete values, such as limiting the diet, and especially circumcision. Circumcision in Judaism is seen as a sacrifice to god in return for benefaction from god. However, the Romans were reluctant to sacrifice such things, especially since the Romans commonly ate many foods and were culturally open sexually--another Christian and Jewish idea was being against homosexuality, which was acceptable to the Romans. Combined with these problems, the Christians needed to construct a system of values that would be more easily accepted by the Romans.
So, the Christians changed, their religion of Christianity by abstracted their values and to decrease the physical sacrifice of conversion. The new Christian values did not employ dietary restrictions, nor did they require a literal circumcision. Instead, the Christians proposed the circumcision of the heart. To further ease the conversion process, Christians needed the process to be as simple as possible. In essence, only four truths needed to be accepted: Jesus is special; he died for the Christians sins; Be a good person, this is the idea of the circumcision of the heart; and Jesus will return. Having accepted those four ideas, a Roman need only be baptized or cleansed of his sin. Initially, this process was as easy as dumping water over the convertees head.
But why would a Roman bother to convert to Christianity? Christianity offers life after death, provided that one was good in life, in heaven. Therefore, all a Roman needed to do to continue living once he was dead, was to agree to four ideas and be a good person. These abstract Christian values were much easier for the Romans to accept than the concrete Jewish sacrifices were.
In summary, Christianity developed from Judaism and at first had a goal, to gain members. The new system of conversion conflicted with the old Jewish tribal values. To solve this problem, the Christians developed a new system of values that was more easily accepted by the Romans. Convertibility was the first major difference between Judaism and Christianity. 
[Ease of conversion, however, was not the first change to befall Christianity through its development. Christianity would continue to develop to fit the needs of its leaders?]
COMMENT on the line above: If I had more time, I might research about when the idea of paying churches came around. I thought that another way that Christianity might have developed was that Constantine (I know we didnt go over this in class but I would have looked it up) said that the churches could charge people money to benefit his rule. Again, I dont know if that actually was the case but this was just an idea I had that I wanted to express but didnt know how to incorporate into my essay. By the time I am finished writing this comment, however, I likely would have had enough time to research it but not fit it into my idea.?Religions are like orchestras. They can play gorgeous music when all working together, but just like the wood body of a violin or the reeds of a wind instrument, they can swell and shrink, crack or slip, resulting in dissonance.
	In an orchestra, the conductor has control of the whole group, and with the full score in front of them, they are seen to be omniscient. Like an orchestras conductor, each Abrahamic religion has one god: the supreme power. As stated in Judaism, Christianity and Islam - Comparison, Judaism, Islam, or Christianity -- all believe in an omniscient God, prophets [...]. Dissecting this quote, we see that one similarity between these religions is they believe in one overarching power. While the prophets in each religion may differ, the idea that some divine person was told by God to pass on knowledge and wisdom to the people occurs in all three of the religions. As in an orchestra, there can be a soloist, a prophet, who both leads and follows the people. They work together to create something beautiful.
	In the realm of beauty, all of the holy books in the Abrahamic religions are of great importance, just as the music is to the musicians. Both religion and music use text to guide their actions. All three religions use text as a central part of their religion, but they use it in different ways. For example, one contrast between Judaism and Islam is the way in which they view their respective holy books. In Judaism, there is a strong emphasis on deep textual understanding and interpretation of the Torah. This can be likened to the creativity and exploration of the music in jazz. But, as said on Quranic Inerrancy - Wikipedia, Quranic inerrancy is a doctrine central to the Muslim faith that the Quran is the infallible and inerrant word of God as revealed to Muhammad by the archangel Gabriel. This reveals that unlike the interpretation of the Torah, Islam sees the Quran as the words of God, through Muhammad, that are divine and unchanging. In classical music, the notes written on the page are worshipped and followed explicitly.
	While religion and music have a transcendental power, they both have the possibility to be taken to the extremes, or out of tune, as well. All three of the Abrahamic religions have instances of religious extremism, just like when the orchestra is out of tune, everyone can be playing the same music, but a dissonant cacophony of sound is produced rather than a mutual understanding and harmony. Religion can unify and divide, discriminate against and welcome, but like the Abrahamic religions and an orchestra, everyone in and following them has a great power to choose to come together and embrace peace over viol(e)in-ce, and to ob(o)e-y the divine word. This creates something magnificent.
Sources: 
Judaism, Islam, Christianity - Comparison
https://www.allaboutreligion.org/judaism-islam-christianity-comparison-faq.htm
Quranic Inerrancy - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quranic_inerrancy?Talk about one religion, and how it is different from all the others (what makes it special essentially)
TAOISM
Taoism is pure philosophy. It stands out because, while all religions have philosophical components, Taoism is built on the idea of philosophy. Not having prescribed morality also sets Taoism apart. Its a religion that recognizes the enormity of understanding everything and confesses that there is no prescribed method of attainment.
The first religion compared to Taoism is Confucianism. The fundamental principles of Confucianism are to know your place and live with respect. Confucianism has a strong emphasis on relationships and knowing how to act within them. This is a religion that can be practiced and prescribed, and if you follow the rules, you are guaranteed to go to Tian, heaven. Adversely, The Way has never known boundaries; speech has no constancy. (The Tao-te Ching) To know your place, as Confucianism requires, means that there are boundaries, and if you can never know anything for sure, then it is not worth trying to seek unknowable knowledge.
Out of the religions compared to Taoism in this writing, Buddhism shares some of the ideology, but there are also discrepancies. The core idea of Buddhism is that ego-based desires cause you pain. Dont try to avoid the inevitable. Taoism agrees with the fundamental idea of freedom from desire, as shown in this quote. Always without desire we must be found, If its deep mystery we would sound; But if desire always within us be, Its outer fringe is all that we shall see. (The Tao-te Ching) This shows that desires only let the shell of your being be visible. While there are similarities between the two religions, one difference is the idea of Dukkha, the unenlightened life, thats presented in Buddhism. In Buddhism, if you work to subdue your mind to become enlightened, you can reach the point of omniscience. The philosophy of Taoism states that there is and never will be any way to know everything, and therefore, it is the choice to let the river of life, the tao, guide you.
	Buddhism asks you to find your role on your own, and by doing this, you will reach enlightenment. But, in Hinduism, you are born with a role, your Dharma, and it is your job to serve in that role to your best ability. Success to do so results in reincarnation, Samsara. In Hinduism, the ultimate goal is a release from the cycle altogether. The philosophy of Taoism says that there is no release from the cycle because while the cycle is both existent and nonexistent, its a figment of the imagination. Therefore, since your arrangement of atoms, your being, isnt truly you, the only way forward is to follow the tao.
The Tao that can be trodden is not the enduring and unchanging Tao. The name that can be named is not the enduring and unchanging name. (The Tao-te Ching) This is the definition of the Tao, the way, from the Tao-te Ching. It best explains Taoism because in saying that the way isnt actually the way, it illustrates that the more you seek the answers, the further away from them youve actually become. By naming the tao, its no longer the tao. This pure philosophical paradox of Taoism sets it apart from the other religions.
?The Renaissance was the beginning of a new set of ideas about what it meant to be alive, one that embraced culture, art, and philosophy. The Reformation was a different set of ideas, of faith and free will, that strived to answer the same question. In the end, the Renaissance and Reformation teach us that ideas are just ideas, with no moral connection.
	The renaissance was the search to revive old ideas and to bring back the perspectives and views on humanity and life in general from the ancient thinkers and philosophers. This was in the hopes that they could find knowledge about purpose through those ideas. During this period, some of the most renowned art, music, and ideas came about, but even today we havent found out the purpose of living and how to go about it.
	The antithesis to the radical and new, yet ancient and old, ideas of the Renaissance was the Protestant Reformation. The Reformation, led by the passionate priest Martin Luther, looked down on the ideas of humanism that came from the Renaissance and feared that society was becoming distant from God and the true purpose of living. Prior to the Reformation, the church sold indulgences, a get-out-of-jail-free card, that, through the payment of the citizens, erased their sin. Martin Luther and the Reformation believed that this was the result of a corrupt church, and that to truly find your purpose and connect with God, you could read the bible for yourself and interpret the words in it to find your own purpose as long as you were a devout catholic. 
	Looking at both these periods of immense change in lifestyles and ideas, there is a common thread: Both of these times teach us that ideas are just ideas and people are no more enlightened today then they were back then. These two radical ways of thinking have shaped the world today, but even today people grapple with the purpose of living and how to live well.
?Prompt: How do other elements of identity (culture, gender, sexual orientation, wealth, citizenship, etc.) impact the characters' mental health and ability to receive/get help?
	Some elements of identity in the book I Am Not Your Perfect Mexican Daughter were dichotomous, while others were groups within an umbrella category. While not necessarily reflecting the way these identities exist outside of the story, the identities seen as dichotomous in the story were: cultural identity, either mexican or white; gender, either male or female--as aforementioned, as the identities are seen in the story; citizenship, either a citizen or, as Julias family says, ilegales[, or illegals] (166).; and wealth, either rich or poor. With these dichotomous identities, one side causes more harm to the characters mental health and ability to receive help, while the other provides support.
In terms of cultural identity, as aforementioned, the book addresses two main identities: white and mexican. Obviously, there are more than just those, but for the purposes of the book, they will be compared in terms of their impact on a characters mental health and access to resources regarding it. To begin with, one example of the divergence in cultural identity, is when Connor uses an innuendo that intimates that since Julia is not white, she is from somewhere else. The other place in this case, for both Julia and many in her world is Mexico. Where are you from from? (174). In terms of how this identity affects a characters characters mental health, the cultural identity is strongly connected to a wealth identity. Julia and her other Mexican friends are, as the book says, low-income, While Connor, a white person, is wealthy. While wealth is not the sole determinant of ones mental status--in fact a lot of wealth can have a negative impact on mental health--it does, in fact, contribute in many cases. An example of this is where Julia skipped eating lunch for extended periods in order to save money. This physical deprivation due to poverty, if not harmed Julias mental health, did nothing to improve it. However, when it comes to receiving help for mental health issues, the difference between cultural identities and wealth is not seen due to the fact that Julias low-income insurance covers her expenses. Additionally, there were other patients in the hospital where Julia stayed that could be considered non-white and or Mexican. However, just as cultural identity is connected to wealth, there are other factors involved in a characters mental health. 
Gender identity in the book was not discussed to the extent that non-binary genders played an important role in any characters in the story. This is why gender was chosen as a dichotomic identity example for the story. However, gender identity was explored in terms of stereotypes. This can be seen because of Amas beliefs on the role of women. Ama says, What kind of girl doesnt know when a tortilla is done? (32).
One example of a possible difference between the gender identities is that of Apa. While it was not explained in depth in the book, one common stereotype for males is that they shouldnt show their feelings. In the book, Apa is described as merely being physically present in the household, but communicating on very rare occasions. This expected lack of communication could act as a barrier for Apa to relieve stress to improve his mental health. One, albeit slightly unrelated, example is Julias knowledge that talking about her period with her male teachers which both makes the teachers uncomfortable and also can be used as an escape from stress for her. This however, hass less to do with gender identity, and more sexual identity. However, the fact that the male teachers, in addition to others, have the stereotypical expectation that girls are emotional might be more beneficial to Julia in that it is more normal for her to express emotion as a girl than if she were a boy. However, these stereotypes may be different, especially in regards to the cultural lenses. When it comes to gaining help for mental health, since there were an equal number of boys as girls in Julias recovery group, there is no obvious bias one way or another.
	One of the clearest dichotomies is that one citizenship. Without citizenship, one cannot get certain benefits such as healthcare. This inhibits those who do not have citizenship ability to get help for mental health issues. When Julia was discussing terms used to describe citizenship of people with Mr. Ingman--either the tame undocumented, or the negative, illegal The idea of illegal immigration also ties into cultural identity, in that youre either part of the group, or youre not. --she mentioned, My parents could have been sent back to Mexico at any moment, leaving me and Olga here to fend for ourselves. (167). The fact that her parents were in such a tenuous situation is both bad for the mental health of Julia and Olga because they could their parents could be kicked out at any time, but also the situation could make it difficult for Julia and Olga to receive help for their mental health unless they were put into foster care.--Another stressful system. 
Lastly, in regards to wealth, there are two stages denoted by the book: rich or poor. However, like with other identities, there are innuendos for the identities that might be considered bad, in that societal pressure causes mental health issues because of them. An example of the innuendo is when Julia is receiving her medical treatment--an exception to the intuition that poverty would make getting help for mental health issues more difficult. [Dr. Cooke] didnt use the word poor, she said  low-income, but its the same thing. I guess it just sounds more polite. (219). While access to help may not be severely restricted for those who are impoverished, their overall mental state is likely to be negatively affected. When Ama wanted to celebrate Olgas quinceaera though Julia, one of Julias concerns was about the finance of the party. It is not conducive to good mental health if the ability to have good experiences is limited by money. There is another layer of complexity to the situation because of the fact that Ama really wanted to celebrate Olga and not Julia, but she didnt have enough money at the time. Julia remarked, I dont even know where theyre getting the money. All they ever do is complain about how poor we are. (65). The complaints about the lack of money also can lead to poor mental health because of focusing on the negative. But oftentimes, Julia has no choice but to focus on the negative of not having money in order to best conserve what little money she does have. When Julia saw a girl with an expensive doll that she thought was a waste of money, she commented, I cant wait until I have enough money to buy whatever the hell I want without worrying about every single penny. (41). Her worry about the smallest amount of money, the penny, reinforces that it is an issue for her that is not supporting her happiness.
In conclusion, of the pairs of identities that were observed, each had a level of conductivity towards good mental health. Oftentimes, the identities that Julia identified with were the ones that were more conducive to poor mental health. However, as seen by the fact that Julia makes good progress on her mental health toward the end of the story, the identities Julia had did not stop her from getting help and improving. An application of the understanding gained by the simple dichotomous identities in the book to the real world might be understanding that there are many different identities, and some are more conducive to having good mental health because of the stigmas and stereotypes around them. However, it is important to note that while identities are a part of you, they dont bind you. Just as Julia did experience depression and anxiety, she was able to live a more mental health positive life in the end.
?The study of Roman history shows that the culture and ideology set a precedent for future societies. One of the ways Roman history shaped the societies of today is through the Battle of Cannae. In this battle, the Carthagenians used a new technique called the Fabian Strategy where instead of moving an army forward, the middle of the line moves back, trapping the other army in a circle. In the case of the Carthagenians, this tactic proved that through strategy and perseverance, even a smaller, inexperienced army can win. Though this battle happened over 2,000 years ago, many famous commanders have tried implementing this strategy, such as George Washington during the Revolutionary War. By studying the history of the Battle of Cannae and the unexpected victory of the Carthagenians makes the Fabian Strategy compelling to the societies who are in a similar situation. During the Revolutionary War, it was apparent that the American army was nowhere near as large and as powerful as the British Army. Through the idea that despite having a lacking army it is possible to win against your enemy, the Americans ultimately won the war. This means that the war tactics and ideology used in Roman history gave inspiration to wars much later in history.
	One of the most famous lines used throughout Roman history is Sic Semper Tyrannis or Thus always to tyrants. It was used by Brutus during the assassination of Julius Caesar to form the Roman Republic, and was later used during the assassination of US President Abraham Lincoln. The ideology behind the phrase is that kings cannot rule a society, and instead a government system where the power is more evenly spread out should be used. The Romans were one of the first to use the idea of democracy and separation of powers, which in turn inspired the idea of the US government system of checks and balances. During Caesars reign, he abused his power and thus the phrase Sic Semper Tyrannis was made, as a protest to his rule. This moment in Roman history inspired the assassination of Lincoln; according to the assassin he was abusing his power and acting like a king. Though the assassination of Caesar happened nearly 2,000 years ago, the effect of this moment inspired the ideology of people throughout history. By studying Roman culture, you can see parallels between what happened then and the ideology of the people today. ?Abstract:
Understanding how enzymes interact and how to optimize their function is a foundational concept used across medical fields and has directly contributed to lifesaving treatments. Our enzymatic research investigated catalase (an enzyme), seeking to understand the optimal conditions to break down hydrogen peroxide. We hypothesized that catalase would break down hydrogen peroxide faster as the concentration of catalase got higher. To test our hypothesis we measured exactly three milliliters of water and three milliliters of hydrogen peroxide into a test tube. Then we added 50 microliters of catalase and corked the tube with a pressure reader. We then increased the amount of catalase by fifty microliters and repeated the tests for the following measurements of catalase: 50, 100, 150, and 200 microliters. As a control test, we mixed the same volume of hydrogen peroxide and water, but did not add catalase. Our results supported our hypothesis because, even with the anomalous data points at 50 and 200 microliters, our data followed a consistent rise of pressure to catalase increase. The optimization of the enzyme is important for humans because it breaks down hydrogen peroxide within our cells. Increasing the effectiveness of catalase can in turn increase health.
Figure 1. Slope of pressure by enzyme concentration
The slope of pressure is the rate at which pressure within the test tube increased in a consistent linear fashion. Increase in pressure indicated how quickly the enzyme was catalyzing because oxygen gas is a product of this enzyme and substrate reaction. Enzyme concentration is measured in microliters of the amount of enzyme added.?Has farming been good or bad for humanity? 
Luisa Grutz-Bianchi
10/18/2019
Over time humans have been domesticated by numerous forms of wildlife, which has lessened our health in comparison to our former hunter-gather society.
Before the agriculture revolution, humans lived hunter-gather lives, this meant that they lived in small groups and changed locations frequently. This leads to a balanced diet and less widespread disease. Around 10,000 years ago this way of life that sapiens had practiced for 2.5 million years rapidly changed. During this change, the Agriculture revolution, humans devoted more time to cultivating wheat. This work had a huge physical demand, in many cases, humans knees, spines, necks, etc. were permanently altered and caused pain. Wheat didnt like rocks and pebbles, so Sapiens broke their backs clearing fields (Harari, 80) Moreover, the nutritious results were not synchronous to the labor that was necessary to keep wheat thriving; It did not offer a better diet. (Harari, 81) So why did humans work so hard for an inadequate result?
Farming leads to humans living in larger groups and staying put. In addition, most of the humans that were farming had only one or two crops. A large but cramped village of 1,000 people, who suffered far more from disease and malnourishment. (Harari, 83) The large numbers of people in small spaces resulted in diseases spreading between more humans which lead to more of them dying. In addition, since sapiens only relied on a few specific types of crops, if a disease killed all of a crop the humans would starve.
 
In conclusion, farming has lead to humans having less balanced diets and diseases that spread at rapid rates. With all of the evidence and information presented above scientists estimate that the main reason for the agriculture revolution is that all species (wheat and sapiens) want to produce as many DNA copies of themselves as possible, even if the living conditions are worse than what they once were.
"I have neither given nor received unauthorized help on this work."
?To-do-list
?Mechanics issues
?Make one big point
?Cut to ~1000 words
?Spelling errors
?Read backwards
Alex Angell Brian Crawford English 100 1/15/20
Symbolism in Small Country
A story without symbols is like a cake without icing. (Brian Crawford, 2019).
Symbolism is critical in story representation and animation. Using objects, elements, or nature, to represent concepts gives authors the ability to demonstrate character growth within their environment. Symbols bring life to stories through repetition, appearance in important moments, and experience within culture. In Small Country, the author, Gal Faye uses symbols to represent the protagonist, Gabriels character growth. As Gabriel (or Gaby, as he is often called), aged ten, deals with corrosive social structure, contentious famiy, and genocide, the author uses symbolism to represent his identity development in warring world.
One of the most important natural symbols of Gabys childhood is mangoes. Mangoes are present every time Gaby is reflecting on, or experiencing an event related to his childhood. The first mango reference is in a scene describing the shenanigans of the Kinyanera Boyz, Gabys social club. Gaby showcases his immaturity through his ignorance of societal values. The Kinyanera Boyz ethical failings are evident when they try to steal the Von Gotzens mangoes from outside the garden wall. Back on home turf, we [Gaby and company] had our eyes on the big, fat juicy mangoes hanging in the Von Gotzens garden. (58). Assuming the juiciest mangoes represent the quintessence of childhood, the boys have been blocked from their most juvenile desires. Additionally, the Von Gotzens racism is mirrored by governments racism. The
wall blocking Gaby from mangoes represents the racism that will soon rip him from his haven of innocence. Mangoes appear again in the rising and falling of a scene where Francis, the Kinyanera Boyz adversary, attempts to drown Gaby and his best friend, Gino after he catches the Kinyanera Boyz trying to steal mangoes from his garden. Gaby and Gino are upset because they were nearly drowned. Despite his fear of Francis, Gaby goes back to Franciss house to retrieve their discarded mango picking rods, however, he leaves the mangoes to rot, alluding to the decomposition of his innocence. I picked up our rods and left the mangoes behind. Nobody would collect them now. [...] I couldnt have cared less about those mangoes rotting on the fresh grass. (106). This is a pivotal moment of firsts for Gaby, his first experience of real violence and the first time he puts someone elses needs above his own.
After nearly being drowned, Gino bonds with Francis over their dead mothers, and invites him into the club. When Gino informs the Kinyanera Boyz that Francis is in, Francis takes the gang to a school outside Bujumbura in the war zone to swim. In the taxi, the story references the road, saying, Mango trees laden with fruit adorned the main road, chausse Prince Louis Rwagasore. Gino tooted the horn when we spotted some kids from another neighborhood picking off mangoes with their long rods. (126). The trees with fruit and the young boys picking it were Gabys last glimpse at the childhood that had rotted away. Water serves as a symbol of rebirth, which we find when Gaby swims with his club. Gaby jumps off the high dive and is extolled by his friends just before being shooed away. They all run in their, birth-day suits (129), to the taxi and leave. Gabys childhood is over now that he left behind the mangoes and was reborn through the water. A baptism of sorts took place when Gaby went into the pool and shifted from an immature mindset into that of an adolescent.
Gabys new maturity is reiterated when Gaby and his friends split because of politics. After the war picks up in Burundi and the start of the genocide in Rawanda, Gaby spends time with an old Greek woman from whom he used to steal mangoes. Madame Economopolus teaches him the value of books, where he finds solace. He has lost hope, and simultaneously learns to value sources of hope. Later, Gaby meets up with his friends and finds out that they have stolen Madame Economopoloss telescope. He is vexed and tells them to give it back. His old friends retort, You conned the Greek lady, too. That was before! And anyway, its not the same with mangoes I tried to grab hold of the telescope, but Gino pushed me backward. (152). To Gaby, the mangoes are different because, in his immature eyes, the mangoes regenerated, so stealing them isnt as bad. He realizes that he didnt want to let go of the repose of innocence, only after losing it. Gaby enjoys the books and relationship Madame Economopolus gives him because it gives him hope of living past the war. The telescope symbolizes hope, and is used to see the stars and sky, often associated with freedom and accomplishment. It also represents the hope that he fears losing by harming Madame Economopolus. He knows the value of predictability because of what he has lost. In addition, telescopes are used to see clearly. Gaby learns that stealing is wrong, and reflects back on himself. After his friends tell him they wont give the telescope back, Gaby tries to take it by force. He latches onto it in an effort to get it back, like his hope.
As a final homage to his childhood and his wish to, make a fortress of my happiness and
a chapel of my innocence. (159), Gaby writes a letter to his penpal Laure filled with white objects, consistently repeating the line, Its been snowing for days and nights over Bujumbura.
(174). It does not snow in Bujumbura. Water is present in moments of change and pain, and
snow is frozen water. He is torn up about being coerced to kill and now his feelings are askew. What Gaby is referencing is something his father said to him; written in a letter to his deceased cousin, Christian. My father told me that on the day men stop waging war on one another, it will snow over the tropics. (161). The repeated line is similar to the expression, hell will freeze over. Hell is freezing over, but the war in Bujumbura is far from over and Gaby is still surrounded by bloodshed. Prior to the letter to Laure, Gaby was forced to burn alive a hutu man who killed a friends father, as if burning in hellfire for his sin. The hell Gaby is in then freezes over and he means it as the end of his war with himself to find a place and stop struggling. In addition, Gaby writes in the letter, Street children are decorating pine trees with red, yellow, and green, mangoes. (174). He has lost the last of his innocence after being forced to kill the hutu man and now writes that the world is upside down with the tropics freezing over. He wants peace as the doves and white flags in his letter fly over Bujumbura. Gaby fills his writing with white, only adding in color with mangoes. White is often a symbol of purity and he has lost his. He was filled with horror from stories of his dead cousins, he lost his friends, he killed a man.
The letter is filled with what he wants. He wants his innocence and his childhood from the
mangoes; he wants the war to end and his hell to freeze over, to have snowfall over the tropics; he wants the purity he lost when he burned the hutu.
The use of symbols throughout Small Country is intentional and precise to go along with Gabys development from child to adult. The symbols provide an engaging element and a deeper level to the writing, as a mechanism for proof of construct. Using symbols to externalize characters internal struggles is an effective way to write character traits and existence. Readers are able to better relate to the characters because they dont only have the people to go by, rather
the context and solid representatives. To use symbolism in this way gives readers a deeper level of understanding and sympathy as they can see the story unfold through the characters and the environment.?Zo Predmore
Figure 1: Amount of Yeast of a Certain Color (Black or Light Orange) in a Petri Dish With (+) and Without (-) Fungicure (an anti-fungal medicine). Recorded on 5 December 2019  
Figure 2: Percent of each color of yeast (white and light orange) in a petri dish with (+) fungicure and without (-) fungicure. Recorded on 16 December 2019
Figure 3: Percent of each color of yeast (white and yellow) in a petri dish with (+) fungicure and without (-) fungicure; this determines white to be the winner of our yeast competition. Recorded on 7 January 2020.
In nature, survival is often a matter of being able to adapt and resist. Often, microevolution is what allows organisms to survive, and this same pattern is repeated over and over, even in tiny organisms; like yeast. We experimented on yeast in order to try to answer the following questions; can we observe microevolution in our yeast populations? And which strain of yeast is best adapted to resist fungicure? We wanted to observe this certain kind of evolution, microevolution, on a macroscopic scale to help us better understand how microevolution works on a bigger scale. We conducted the experiment by first putting two yeast strains (each dyed with a different color, so we could differentiate them later on) into two different tubes, one with and one without fungicure (an anti-fungal medication). Because this medication is working to kill the yeast, strains that grow in population in the fungicure will show that they have adapted to resist the medicine. Two or three days later we would transfer the yeast from each tube into a petri dish of yeast food and let it colonize over three or four days. We would then count the colonies of yeast for each color, and whichever color had a larger increase of colonies from the dish without fungicure to the dish with fungicure was the winner of that stage, and would move on to the next round (this was conducted ten times with eight different colored strains, three of which are shown in figures 1, 2, and 3). Although, in our final competition, we observed yellow having a larger increase in population than white (Figure 3), data collected from others conducting the same experiment leads us to think that white is the strain of yeast most adapted to resist fungicure. We (with the help of data from others) found that white was more adapted than any of the other yeast strains because its population always increased in fungicure. From this data, we can conclude that we were successfully able to observe microevolution within or yeast populations, as we watched the white yeast strain evolve to resist the medicine. This also answers our question; which strain of yeast can best adapt to resist fungicure, with white being our winner. Observing the yeast strains allows us to study microevolution at work at a macroscopic level, and to consider how larger organisms are able to adapt to resist problems they might face. 
?
Inheritance Patterns of Yeast Traits and Evidence for Mendels Laws
Stella Zwingli ~ Arlie Richards and Tamsin Bishop ~ 2/27/19 ~ Section B
Table of Contents
Abstract                                                               3
Introduction                                                         4
Figures                                                                 6 
Results                                                                 9
Conclusion                                                          10
References                                                           12
Abstract
The traits of organisms are determined by the genes that they inherit from their parents gametes (sex cells) and whether the allele they have are dominant or reccesive. While studying yeast my class wanted to determine which color trait (red and cream) was dominant and if the trait giveing the organism the ability to grow without the amino acid leucine is dominant or not. Our other purpose for conducting this experiment was to attain evidence that would support Mendel's Laws of Segregation and Independent Assortment. To find this evidence my lab partner and I crossed red colored yeast that had the ability to grow without leucine with cream colored yeast that couldn't grow without leucine. After the yeast had joined together, yeast tetrads were separated into spores that were left to grow on a petri dish with leucine and without. We found that from the yeast cross all the yeast strains (offspring) were cream colored and had the ability to grow without leucine. We also found that equal numbers of the spores grown had the traits of red color and cream color and the ability to grow without leucine or not. Also, in the group of spores grown, all possible combinations of the two traits were present. The results show that the inheritance pattern for the color and ability to grow is Complete dominance with the trait of cream color dominant over red color and the trait of the ability to grow without leucine dominant over the trait of needing leucine to grow. Examples of Mendel's Laws of Segregation and Independent Assortment are seen in the data collected on the yeast spores. Because genotypes of the spores from a singular tetrad were all different the traits couldn't have been inherited by a spore together, they must have been inherited independently, resulting in the different genotypes. This evidence proves Mendel's Law of Independent Assortment. Mendel's other law, the Law of Segregation, says that out of the traits of the spores from the yeast cross, half would have one allele and half would have the other. This is seen in the data of the groups of spores where the two traits of color and ability to grow were equally present in the population.
Introduction
Gregor Mendel, a scientist who worked in the 1800s on genetics, discovered fundamental principles of genetics that are known as Mendel's Laws (Miko, 2008). These laws are The Law of Segregation and The Law of Independent Assortment. The Law of Segregation states that when gametes (sex cells like sperms and eggs) form, the two alleles of a single trait from the parent seperate so a gamete only carries one allele. This leads to the fact that for every gene, each parent contributes one allele. Mendel's other law, The Law of Independent Assortment, states that the allele a gamete gets for one gene is not affected by and has no effect on another allele it gets for another trait. To make these laws more clear, a chromosome is a structure that carries genetic information in the form of genes which determine the characteristics of an organism. And an allele is an alternate form of a certain gene. Although an individual might have a certain allele for a trait contained in one of their chromosomes, this trait is not always the trait that gets expressed. This is because of inheritance patterns. The two main inheritance patterns that were important in this experiment were autosomal dominance and autosomal recessiveness. Autosomal means that the alleles for these traits are not located on sex chomosomes, which means that the sex of an organism does not affect the likleyhood of having the trait expressed. Dominance of an allele is where in an individual with a recessive and a dominant allele, the trait of the dominant allele will be expressed. And the opposite is true of a recessive allele, so that if an individual has a recessive and dominant allele, the trait of the recessive allele will not be expressed. For an organism to express the trait of a recessive allele, the organism must have the recessive allele on both chromosomes.
In the experiment my class did, we used yeast to determine the inheritance pattern of certain traits and to find evidence for Mendel's laws. The yeast we used reproduces in two ways. The first is called budding, where a single yeast splits its nucleus and grows another yeast cell that splits off, taking half of the nucleus. The offsping of this asexual reproduction is called a haploid that has one copy of every chromosome which contain the same DNA as its parent cell. The second way of yeast reproduction involves two yeast cells. The two yeast cells join and become a diploid which has two copies of each chromosome, then both split their nucleuss to make two haploid spores or two gametes. This group of four yeast gametes is called a tetrad. In the experiment my class did we used and observed offspring from both of these reproduction methods. We crossed yeast using the sexual reproduction method of yeast to find the inheritance patterns of four specific traits. The first two traits were the color of the yeast, with two different alleles, one for the trait of cream yeast color and the other for red color. The other two traits involved the essential amino acid leucine that is generally used in the biosynthesis of proteins, and used specifically by yeast to make proteins (Leucine). These traits were the ability to grow on a plate that did not contain leucine in the yeast food and the trait of not being able to grow on a plate without leucine.
Figures
Figure 1. The original strains of yeast. On the left, red colored yeast with the ability to grow without leucine and cream colored yeast without the ability to grow without leucine.
Figure 2. The offspring strain of yeast (seen in black box) from the original yeast strains (Figure 1.) grown on a plate without leucine.
Figure 3. Strains of yeast grown from gametes of the dissected tetrads grown on a plate with leucine arranged vertically.
Figure 4. A stamp of yeast from the yeast strains from the plate seen in Figure 3 grown on a plate without leucine.
Figure 5. Number of yeast strains grown from dissected tetrad with combinations of the traits of red and cream color and the ability to grow without leucine and the need to grow with leucine.
Figure 6. Number of strains grown from dissected tetrad gametes with the observed traits of color and ability to grow without leucine.
Results
The offspring of the original cross (Figure 1.) of red colored yeast with the ability to grow without leucine and cream colored yeast without the ability to grow without leucine grew on a plate without leucine observed to be cream colored (Figure 2.). From the plate of yeast strains grown from the gametes from the original cross (Figure 3.) and from the stamped yeast observed on the stamped plate without leucine (Figure 2.) there were 9 yeast strains that were red colored and had the ability to grow without leucine, 7 strains that were red and needed leucine to grow, 7 that were cream colored and had the ability to grow without leucine, and 9 that were cream colored and needed leucine (Figure 5.). From the same plates (Figure 3 and 4) 16 strains grown from the gametes had the trait of red color, 16 had the trait of cream colored, 16 had the ability to grow without leucine, and 16 needed leucine to grow.
Conclusion
The inheritance pattern for the traits of color in yeast are dominant for the trait of cream coloring and recessive for the trait of red coloring. This is shown in the fact that when the red yeast was mated with the cream colored yeast, the offspring strain was cream colored (Figure 2.). The inheritance patterns for the trait of being able to grow without leucine and the trait of needing leucine to grow are dominant and recessive. Because the offspring of the cross of yeast with the ability to grow without leucine and without the ability were able to grow on a plate that did not have leucine (Figure 2.), then the ability to grow without leucine must be dominant. Evidence of Mendel's Law of Independent Assortment was found in the combination of the traits in the strains grown from the gametes of the dissected tetrads. If traits were inherited together then all of the strains would have the same combination of traits, but as seen in Figure 5 there were four combinations of traits that the strains of yeast exhibited. Only if traits were independently inherited by the yeast offspring would you have such a variety of trait combinations. The principles of Mendel's other law state that because on allele is inherited from one parent and one from the other, half of the gametes of the dissected tetrad would have one trait and half would have another. In the traits counted from the strains grown from the gametes there was an equal presence of all traits in the population, showing that they had been equally inherited. Although yeast and humans are very different organisms, yeast like humans have DNA. So using yeast to understand more about DNA by conduction of experiments like this help us understand the relatively recent discovery that is the human genome.
References
Leucine. National Center for Biotechnology Information. PubChem Compound Database, U.S. National Library of Medicine, pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/Leucine.
Miko, Ilona. Gregor Mendel and the Principles of Inheritance. Nature News, Nature Publishing Group, 2008, www.nature.com/scitable/topicpage/gregor-mendel-and-the-principles-of-inheritance-593/.
?
Both renaissance and the reformation, though having conflicting ideas, present us with a pattern showing humans viewing themselves as good. The Renaissance and Reformation teach us that during periods of social change humans often like to view themselves as good,  beautiful, and/or more correct than others. Finding this pattern throughout history allows us to gain a deeper understanding of human nature and take this trend into account as we face current day challenges.
The Renaissance resulted in great social and artistic change in European culture. The art produced during this time period represented humans in a very detailed and beautiful way. This new attention to detail and representing the human form and its beauty showcases how people see themselves as good. It does this because when painting the artists personal opinion/ biases on humans shines through, and an artists personal opinion on humans can be partially formed by the way they view themselves. The idea that humans are good and beautiful as represented in the idealized beauty of renaissance art can also be seen in the reformation.
The reformation, though the ideals were very different from the renaissance, also provides us with an example of humans viewing themselves as good. Martin Luther was against the idea of the pope selling indulgences, he believed that it was wrong and that prayer was what one should do in order to get into heaven. He also believed that there should not even be a pope because one is never mentioned in the bible. Martin Luther and the pope had differing opinions, interpretations of the bible, and Christianity as a whole, but they both view themselves as right and good. Moreover, one of Martin Luthers main messages was that everyone should read the bible and then form opinions for themselves, but when people read it and formed ideas that disagreed with his, he said they were wrong. These examples from the Reformation show the common belief that humans have during periods of change that ones self is more righteous and more morally correct (good) than others. 
This all shows us that even though the renaissance and the reformation had two very different beliefs, that the trait humans have of viewing themselves as good is still present no matter the circumstances. After looking at the pattern between these two social change time periods we can then look to other dates in history and search for that same pattern. In addition, we can use this information to predict things in the future. Being able to find patterns in specific points in history allows us to look at history as a whole and gain a deeper understanding.  Knowing these patterns of self idealization tend to repeat through history could raise awareness about current challenges society faces. Looking back at history could help future generations understand that the blind spots and bias in favor of thinking one is good/ right are a pretty natural pattern, but not necessarily an accurate representation of reality.
?The species Homo sapien is different from all other species because of our unique development, both cognitively and physically. The first of three unique attributes of humans is our ability to use fire to cook and defend ourselves from other creatures. Through cooking, Sapiens were able to develop smaller digestive tracts than other species and develop larger brains. This is seen in the text Sapiens by Yuval Noah Harari, when it touches on how cooking changed human life, By shortening the intestines and decreasing their energy consumption, cooking inadvertently opened the way to the jumbo brains of Neanderthals and Sapiens. (Horari, 13). With the appearance of cooking, Sapiens were able to decrease their intestines need for energy; giving way to the development of their larger brains. Cooking is one thing that sets Sapiens apart from the world. However, Sapiens werent the only species in the genus Homo who used cooking, rather they were the only ones that developed extreme cognitive abilities due to it. The second attribute of Sapiens that sets them apart from all other species is their cognitive abilities and their language. The genus Homo used fire to cook, and that set them apart from other genuses, it allowed them to enlarge their brains and become more effective foragers. The application was vast, but the only species in the Homo genus that from this enlarged brain, developed an ability to form deep social connections and customs was the Sapiens. After the cognitive revolution, the Sapiens began to form larger tribes than what was once possible, growing to about 150 humans in one tribe. The Sapiens did this through their development of language, they could gossip about everyone in their tribe and by doing so know who everyone was. Their ability to form groups of over 150 individuals took more than simple gossip, it took a collective conscious, the ability to bond over a system of common beliefs or a culture allowed for more vast cooperation between Sapiens. This is seen when the book Sapiens describes the reason behind humans vast cooperation, The secret was probably the appearance of fiction. Large numbers of strangers can cooperate successfully by believing in common myths. (Harari, 27). Hunting spirits, gods, demons, etc. all allowed for humans to ban together through beliefs and the ability to see and create outcomes in their minds made Sapiens truly unique. Finally, the way Sapiens expanded our knowledge demonstrated the creativity and resourcefulness of the species Sapiens. Trade was a way to move import and export necessary materials from one place to another, it gave way for inlanders to have things found only in the oceans and those from the coast to have things that were only found inland. The rise of trade gave rise to the passing of goods, but it also gave rise to the exchange of information. Merchants could pass language, tradition, and culture throughout countries and even continents through trade. By exchanging information in trade Sapiens were able to expand their intelligence and create and innovate. While it is unsure what a human is, the species Homo Sapien is set apart from the world by their cooking, speaking and thinking, and trading.?How was Christianity religion shaped by the environment in which it was formed? 
Luisa Grutz-Bianchi 
2/7/2020
As Christianity developed it became increasingly adaptable to the changes Rome caused in its environment.  
Judaism was a location-based religion, as a result of this dependency on physical locations when things were destroyed it deeply affected the religion. The temple of Soloman was an extremely holy place to the Jewish peoples, it was the location in which they worshiped god and was the physical location of god. In the year 138ce, the temple of Soloman was burned to the ground because of the conflict between Romans and Zealots (religious extremists). This caused Jesuss supporters to decide that Judaism needed to be reformed; but how could they do that? Since the Zealots were fighting with the Romans, and the Romans were not good at distinguishing between religions, the people who wanted to reform Judaism needed to do so fast. They stopped physically circumcising themselves and changed to the metaphorical circumcision of the heart. They also made new holidays. Over time, Christianity became a religion based on the heart and mind. This allowed it to spread much faster because it was easier to practice. In contrast, Judaism was not seeking new followers in the same way. These differences between the two were assisting in the separation of the two religions. 
Another example of how overtime Christianity became more adaptable to changes is when Rome was burnt to the ground. In the year 410ce Rome caught fire. This was worrisome to the Christan people because the majority of them lived in Rome. Because Christianity is a religion of the heart and mind they begun tell one another that there is a City of God. In the City of God, everything is good and beautiful. This adaptation allowed them to accept these changes and continue to grow. 
In conclusion, in the beginning, it was a location-based religion and overtime it adapted into a religion that was spiritual. Christianity had adapted to be a religion where you did not need to be anywhere to specific practice it because it was within your mind.  Many different factors lead to this change, but the biggest one was the Roman Empire. As a result of the Romans destroying things and burning, Christianity had no choice but to adapt to these new environments. From changing their holidays to new ways of worshiping, Christianity is the way it is today because of itss always-changing surroundings.  
?Both Buddhism and Taoism have a goal of reaching a form of spiritual enlightenment, but the way enlightenment can be reached differs between the two religions.  
One of the main similarities between Buddhism and Taoism is that they both seek to achieve enlightenment. When reading the Dhammapada, a Buddhist text, there are clear things that can be done to reach enlightenment and end suffering. Just as a storm throws down a weak tree, so does Mara overpower the man who lives for the pursuit of pleasures, who is uncontrolled in his senses, immoderate in eating, indolent, and dissipated (Dhammapada). This quote is telling readers that Mara, the evil deity whos goal is to lead people away from the path of enlightenment, can overpower people who dont let go from distractions and desires. This is similar to Taoism because one of the main principles in Taoism is to go with the flow, Taoism actually can be translated into the way. If we continue to dissect the meaning of what the way means we can examen the following quote. A yellow horse and a black cow make three (Chuangtzu). This quote shows how everything is unified and can flow together, and that can be directly connected to the concept of letting go which is present in Buddhism as well. Another quote from Tao-te Ching, which is Taoist, is Always without desire we must be found, If its deep mystery we would sound, But if desire always within us be, Its outer fringe is all that we shall see. (Tao-te Ching). This is similar to Buddhist concepts because it also states that in order to achieve spiritual enlightenment one needs to let go of the distractions and desires.  
	A difference between Taoism and Buddhism is that Taoism tells you to let go but does not give clear directions on how to do that and Buddhism provides a clear pathway to enlightenment. In Taoism the way cannot be described, it is a broad topic. When reading the Chuangtzu, some of the language is confusing, for example, How would I know that? said Wang Ni. Do you know that you don't know it? How would I know that?Then do things know nothing? (Chuangtzu) When reading this people might become confused, but what Taoism is telling them in this is that they need to go with the way and not feel the need to give an exact definition to it. In contrast, Buddhism has specific lists of how one can achieve enlightenment. An example of this is from the Ten Cardinal Precepts, 1. Not to kill, but to cherish all life.
2. Not to take what is not given, but to respect the things of others. (Ten Cardinal Precepts) This is providing specific steps on how to achieve spiritual enlightenment and how to follow in the path of the buddha. If we compare the Taoist and Buddhist quotes above we can conclude that although they both seek enlightenment, the historical writings on what enlightenment is and how one can achieve that are different in the way they are explained. 
	In conclusion, although some aspects of Taoism and Buddhism have a similar philosophically bend, there are also clear differences between the two. Taoism tells its worshipers to let go but does not tell them how because the pathway to letting go and flowing with the way can not be described, it has to be found. While Buddhism also tells its followers to let go of distraction and desire but lists out ways one can do that to end suffering. In other words, both Buddhism and Taoism say that having a sense of self-awareness will lead to ones suffering, but if you let that go and all other things you are attached to you can reach enlightenment. 
A yellow horse and a black cow make three
This shows how everything is unified and that things can flow together 
-- both religon shave metaphoes, but buddhisms metaphores are more clear--- you have to think more about the Daoism ones 
Buddhism tells you what to do to end the suffering, but Daoism tells you that there is like the  way 
Buddism is anti drug-- but Daoism tells stories abt it 
#7http://www.buddhanet.net/pdf_file/scrndhamma.pdf
#14- do they see passion as a distraction from reaching full enlightenment 
#58
Buddhism:
-More literal and easier to interpret
-Has metaphors 
-Detach your self from attachments
-Let go of these old bias 
-You dont worship the buddha, you practice his principles
Islam 
Judaism 
Christianity 
Confucianism 
Daoism
Buddhism 
-quran 
-Torah 
-Bible 
-circumcision -- giving something up to follow 
-Circumcision of the heart-- giving something up to follow in the way of christ 
-You sacrifice your needs for the better of others-- your elders 
-
Daoism-  https://terebess.hu/english/chuangtzu.html
Buddhism- http://www.princeton.edu/~buddhism/old/basics.pdf
What it allows us to understand 
?Stella Zwingli
Brian Crawford
English 100
March 24, 2020
Maria Teresa's Path to the Revolution
The book In the Time of the Butterflies by Julia Alvarez follows the development of the four non-fictional Mirabal sisters as they grow from adolescence to their death in their adulthood. People in the Domincan Republic see the sisters as symbols of resistance, and specifically feminist resistance because of their involvment in the recalcitrant movement against the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo. During the time of the revolution, three of the sisters formed the revolution group the Movement of the Fourteenth of June. The book follows one of the sisters, Maria Teresa, also known by her nickname Mate, as she grows up surrounded by revolutionary influences and follows her older sister Minerva to the university. Later in the book, she meets a revolutionary named Leandro whom she falls in love with, and who prompts her to join the revolution. Her actions then lead the government to send her to jail, and later she is killed in a targeted government ambush along with her sisters Patria and Minerva. Three of the reasons that lead to Mates joining the revolution in the Domincan Republic are to pursue her love interest Leandro, the desire to protect her sister and to follow her, and to give her a purpose and an outlet for her energy.
One of the main impetuses that leads to Mates joining the revolution is her love interests (Leandro) being involved in the revolution. Mate wants to join the revolution because she knows it will give her an opportunity and will bring her closer to Leandro, a member of the revolution. She also feels that in order to be worthy of Leandro she needs to join the revolution and sacrifice her time and safety for a greater cause. Mate writes about her first encounter with Leandro, I didn't know what us he was talking about, but I knew right then and there, I wanted to be part of whatever he was. This shows her captivation with Leandro and her augmented attraction to the revolution now that she is aware of his involvement in it. It also shows her determination in joining the revolution so she can be in the same exclusive group Leandro is in. Her motivation to join the revolution because Leandro is part of it shows how his being involved with the revolution is a reason she joins the movement. She also writes, I don't want to be babied anymore. I want to be worthy of Palomino,(142). This quote shows that Mate believes that she is not good enough for Leandro (nicknamed Palomino) and thinks that joining the revolution will make her worthy of him. Mates want to change herself for Leandro exhibits the fact that she wants to put in effort to try to get to know him. This shows that her need to be worthy of Leandro, a member of the revolution, and the desire to spend time with him, leads Mate to join the revolution. 
Throughout the book, Minerva and Mate are shown to be the closest of all the sisters, which is why Minerva ends up influencing Mate in her decisions and is one of the main reasons Mate joins the revolutionary movement. When Mate is a child, Minerva influences Mate and coerces her to reflect on her life. When Mate and Minerva are older, Mate decides to follow in Minerva's footsteps and go to the university and study to become a lawyer. As common for siblings, the younger sibling looks up to the older sibling for guidance and usually tries to imitate the siblings behavior.  This is why, when Minerva joins the revolution, Mate later joins following her sisters lead. An example of this behavior is where Mate writes in her diary, I argued all up and down, but it was like the time Minerva wanted to do the hunger strike. I said, Minerva, were already half-starved, what more do you want? She held my hands and said, Then do what you think is right, Mate. Of course, I ended up on a hunger strike, too,(236). This shows Mates tendency to follow Minerva's lead, even when it goes against what she believes and is dangerous and physically taxing to her. Joining a revolution, even when she knew that revolutionaries could be jailed, tortured, and killed on the command of the regime, was a high stakes decision that would greatly impact Mates life. Making such an impactful decision would take a lot of positive benefits of being part of the revolution to decide on joining, so Minerva being part of the revolution must have been one of those main reasons. Mate also writes, But what was I supposed to do? Leave Minerva behind to be a martyr all by herself?(236).  This matters because it shows Mates dedication to Minerva's safety and supporting her by exhibiting Mates concern with leaving Minerva in a difficult situation by herself.. Because Mate is so concerned with Minerva's welfare, this shows that Mate not only joined the revolution because Minerva did, she also joined to keep Minerva safe and to support her in her chase of political change. 
A third motivation that Mate had for joining the revolution was to have a purpose and a place she could direct her energy. The book portrays Mate as a very tentative character who often follows the lead of others instead of being self motivated. The book also portrays her as a very male attention and love focused character in her early adult years. Throughout the book Mate searches for the right person who will define her purpose as a romantic partner, and later a wife. This seaching is what leads Mate to join the revolution because she can focus her energy into the movement instead of aimlessly searching for a love interest. Before joining the revolution Mate writes in her diary that, I want to know things I dont even know what they are. But I could be happy without the answers if I had someone to love,(122). This shows that Mate has a desire for knowledge and understanding, and that the energy she puts into pursuing possible love interests is her attempt to try to fill the hole she feels is caused by her lack of comprehension of the world around her. This desire to fill the emptiness she feels leads her to join the revolution because in joining the revolution she can gain the knowledge and understanding she seeks, and can pursue Leandro, the man she is in love with. After joining the revolution, Mate writes, Im a natural for this, really. Ive always liked men, receiving them, paying them attention, listening to what they have to say. Now I can use my talents for the revolution,(143). This shows how now involved in the revolution she is using the energy she put into pursuing romance into the revolutionary movement. By finding a place to use her talents she is able to understand herself and her purpose and also she is able to form an identity for herself instead of using a romantic partner to define her. Throughout the book, Mate searches for a purpose and a person or idea to direct her energy at, this search leads her to join the revolution where she can find a purpose for herself.
Observing the reasons Mate decided to join the revolution in the Dominican Republic, helps us understand the reasons others may have to speak out or make the decision to join a group that has many risks. One of the main reasons Mate joins the revolution is because people she loves are members. For Mate, joining the revolution was an opportunity to get closer to a love interest (Leandro), and to protect and support a loved one (Minerva). Other people in a position similar to Mate might feel obligated to join a group to protect a loved one from getting hurt or making bad decisions, and others may join groups to get closer to some they admire or love. Mate also joins the revolution to feel worthy of love. This might show that people might join groups to feel politically active enough to deem yourself worthy of the love from someone who fights for justice. Studying Mate for reasons why others might speak up or join revolutionary movements is particularly interesting because although Mate disagrees with the actions of Trujillo, the dictator in the Doinican Republic, the main reason she joins the revolution is not because she opposes the regime, unlike her sister Minerva. Especially in books that follow a character in their revolutionary acts and their actions against injustice, the main character is usually motivated by their abhorrence of their political situations, not for other reasons. This brings up the question, is it more compelling and believable if the main character of a story that involves a revolutionary journey, joins the revolution because of their detestation of the government or for other reasons??Mendelian genetics in relation to yeast genes
Partners Alexandra Angell Ethan Vazquez
Section A
Table of contents
Abstract	2
Introduction	2
Results	3
Graphs and Figures	4
Conclusions	13
Geneticists base many of their experiments on Mendels laws. We based our genetics experiment on two of Mendels Laws. First, Mendels law of independent assortment, the idea that two traits will be inherited independently of each other. Second, Mendels laws of segregation, the idea that allele pairs will separate in gamete production and be placed in random gametes. Our research examined two genes in yeast strains, coloration (pink or white), and ability to grow without leucine. We hypothesized that this experiment would support Mendels laws of independent assortment and segregation. We began with two yeast strains, one was pink and could grow without leucine and the other was white and couldnt grow without leucine. We mixed the yeast strains and produced white yeast that could grow without leucine. This indicates a complete dominance pattern for the white and ability to grow without leucine traits. We then looked into what gammetes the yeast would produce and our findings showed a half and half split of both traits with varying combinations. Our findings support our hypothesis because the beginning cross showed Mendels law of independent assortment because each yeast strain had one dominant and one recessive gene, showing two different inheritance patterns for traits, and the gamete observation showed Mendels law of segregation by only yielding spores with one trait (no dual presentation of the same trait was observed).
Introduction
Mendelian genetics are imperative in scientific fields. Gregor Mendel was an Italian scientist who spearheaded genetic fields and research by studying the inheritance patterns of pea plants and developing laws from his findings. We will be discussing how our experiment supports Mendels laws of segregation and independent assortment. Mendels law of independent assortment states that two traits will be inherited independently of each other. Mendels law of segregation states that allele (trait type variations) pairs will

separate in gamete production and be placed in random gametes. To understand how to observe these laws, we must also understand inheritance patterns. In this experiment we only saw complete dominance inheritance patterns, meaning only one gene expression was present in heterozygous (having two different alleles) and homozygous (having the same two alleles) subjects.
In our experiment we observed the inheritance patterns of two traits in yeast, coloration and ability to grow without
leucine. Leucine is an amino acid that yeast use for metabolic functions. Certain yeast strains can grow and reproduce without leucine in their media, this ability to grow without leucine is a heritable trait.
We chose yeast for this experiment because they grow quickly and we are able to extract, grow, and observe the phenotypes of their gametes. Beginning with haploids, organisms (yeast) with one complete set of chromosomes, we can breed two strains to form diploids, organisms (yeast) with two complete sets of chromosomes. These diploids are heterozygous for any traits that the two mated haploid strains did not share.
Starving these diploids will cause them to undergo meiosis, the resulting four spores per diploid are packaged in the parental cell body. These four spores are called tetrads and can be dissected and the gametes (spores) can each be grown into a new yeast colony.
Results
In the first part of the experiment we bred two yeasts, pink yeast that could grow without leucine and white yeast that couldnt grow without leucine. From this cross we placed the F1 on a plate without leucine along with controls and observed the growth of the yeast. All the F1 generation had the same phenotype, white with the ability to
grow without leucine (Figure 3.). This demonstrates that the allele for white coloration is dominant to the allele for pink coloration and the allele for being able to grow without leucine is dominant to the allele for being unable to grow without leucine.
In the second part of the experiment we induced meiosis in the F1 generation and allowed the gametes of eight tetrads to grow. We observed a 1:1 ratio for both traits per tetrad, a fifty-fifty split over all. Sixteen out of thirtytwo were pink, sixteen out of thirtytwo were white, sixteen out of thirtytwo were able to grow without leucine, and sixteen out of thirtytwo were not able to grow without leucine.
Graphs and Figures
Figure 1. P generation yeast
The pink square of yeast is able to grow without leucine and the white square of yeast is not able to grow without leucine. Both the pink and white yeast squares are haploids, meaning each type only has one complete set of chromosomes.
Figure 2. Plate containing growing F1 diploids
We added white yeast that couldn't and pink yeast that could grow without leucine to a plate with media containing leucine and allowed it to grow. The image above shows the yeast while it was growing. We mixed the two yeast strains four times on multiple dishes to have multiple tests.
Figure 3. Plate without leucine in media containing transferred F1 diploids
We transferred the mixed yeast strains to a plate that did not contain leucine in the media to observe whether the yeast would grow. We added controls in the bottom, the two smaller black circles (yeast that could not grow was placed on the one that had a visible - and yeast that could grow on without leucine was placed on the one covered by yeast).
Figure 4. Dissected tetrads/yeast gametes growing on a plate containing leucine
We placed the gametes from eight full tetrads on a dish containing leucine and allowed the colors to saturate. Each tetrad is placed vertically on the plate. We observed the color of gametes on this plate.
Figure 5. Dissected tetrads/yeast gametes growing on a plate not containing leucine
We placed the gametes from eight full tetrads on a dish not containing leucine and allowed them to grow. Each tetrad is placed vertically on the plate. We observed the ability to grow without leucine of gametes on this plate.
Tetrad
Spore
Pink?
Grows on -Leu
1
A
X
B
X
X
C
D
X
2
A
B
C
X
X
D
X
X
3
A
X
B
C
X
X
D
X
4
A
X
X
B
C
X
D
X
5
A
X
B
X
C
X
X
D
6
A
X
B
X
C
X
D
X
7
A
X
X
B
C
X
X
D
8
A
X
B
C
X
X
D
X
Figure 6. Results of gamete observations
Phenotypes of each gamete in the eight tetrads we observed (Figure 4.) (Figure 5.). Our research examined the gametes produced by yeast diploids that were heterozygous for color and ability to grow without leucine. The X indicates the gamete was observed positive for the trait. The table shows the results of the observations of the second part of our experiment where we grew the gametes of the F1 diploids.
Figure 7. Number of pink gametes vs. number of white gametes
The recorded data (Figure 6.) shows the same number of pink and white gametes. There is a 1:1 ratio of pink to white.
Figure 7. Gametes that grow without leucine vs. gametes that dont grow without leucine.
The recorded data (Figure 6.) shows the same number of gametes that grow without leucine and gametes that dont grow without leucine. There is a 1:1 ratio of gametes that grow without leucine to gametes that dont grow without leucine.
Conclusions
Our results showed evidence strongly supportive of Mendels laws. In our first part of the lab, we bred two yeast strains of different phenotypes (one, pink, could grow without leucine and one, white, could not grow without leucine) to determine the inheritance pattern of coloration and necessity of leucine, and to determine if these yeast follow Mendels laws. After breeding them, we let them grow on a
non-leucine and leucine plate. We found that all the offspring were white and could grow without leucine. Because the two original yeast strains were homozygous for each trait, the offspring must be heterozygous. When a heterozygous group of individuals, a colony of yeast, show one phenotype, it indicates a complete dominance pattern of inheritance for whatever trait is presented, in this case white and the ability to grow without leucine are the dominant traits. Our findings support Mendels law of independent assortment because both yeast strains carried one dominant and one recessive trait, meaning that the inheritance pattern of one trait is not linked to another. Additionally, in the second part of our experiment we starved the yeast so they would sporulate (make gametes in the form of tetrads) and we could dissect
their tetrads and grow the gametes to observe the phenotypes of each gamete. We found a 1:1 ratio for pink vs. white and, for ability to grow without leucine vs. not able to grow without leucine. This ratio supports Mendels law of segregation because in heterozygous individuals, each chromosome pair has two variations of alleles for the same trait. Because we saw no dual presentation of a trait in any of the gametes, we can draw that the allele pairs were separated and each gamete has only one allele for the traits. If the alleles split in gamete production, gametes have a 50% chance of getting each allele, so the 1:1 ratio for each trait per tetrad fits this segregation law. Additionally in each tetrad there was no exact distribution of alleles to have a 1:1:1:1 ratio of phenotypes, indicating that there is randomness associated with placement of chromosomes in gametes. We found our hypothesis to be correct because our findings support Mendels laws of segregation and independent assortment.?Alex Angell Brian Crawford English 100
05 March 2020
A Reason for revolution In the Time of the Butterflies
Why does someone join a revolution? The 1994 novel In the Time of the Butterflies by Julia Alvarez addresses this question as she follows the lives of four sisters in the Dominican revolution against Rafael Trujillos regime. The book follows the lives of the Mirabal sisters across three decades, as they mature and become national heroes and revolutionary icons in the Dominican Republic. Three sisters, Patria, Minerva, and Maria Teresa (Mate) join the revolution for commitment to both family and god, independence, and love, respectively. The fourth sister, Ded never joins, but lives to tell their story. Patrias path to revolution is indirect. She begins life as the eldest child in a family that enforces conservative religious and cultural views. She grows up with her religion being a strict backbone to her actions and ideals. Patria starts a family at a young age while her two sisters join the revolution. Slowly, the revolution invades her life until she finally joins after a traumatic experience with her church group. After Patria joines, she is able to help coordinate the church and the revolutionaries. Together, the three sisters fight the venal government until they are murdered in a grisly roadside ambush by Rafael Trujillos militia. What this shows is that, of the three sisters, Patria has the strongest connection to the revolution through her commitment to her family and her god.
Patrias family-centred view of the world causes her initial exposure to the revolution. In
the beginning, though she has not joined the revolution, two of her sisters have become involved
in the struggle. Her affiliation with the revolution at first stems from the love and worry she feels for her revolutionary sisters. Though she supports the cause, she doesnt want her family to be in danger. After she decides to name her baby after a revolutionary, she muses about her worries for her familys safety, I was running scared. Not for myself but for those I loved. My sisters - Minerva, Mate - I was sick sometimes with fear for them, (151). This shows her connection to the revolution isnt based on personal views, rather the fear of her sisters being in danger. She is scared for her sisters safety because she knows how Trujillo deals with revolutionaries such as them; torture and murder. As a family-loving person, Patria puts extraordinary value in her sisters and their children, so when Minerva requests to have Patria take care of Minervas six-month-old baby, Patria is appalled at the strain and emotional toll of the revolution. The depth of the revolution in her sisters life impacts her with the fear of losing them; if they die, they are dead, but they leave behind their family to miss them. The revolution comes further into her life when she offers her sisters,  a place to meet, and so I offered them our land. (156). By offering her land for their revolutionary meetings, Patria puts her family in danger. Though she can tell the Servicio de Inteligencia Militar (SIM, the Military intelligence service) that she and her husband, Pedrito, are unaware of them being there, it is a gamble if they would believe it and if they would punish them anyway. As such, the first steps she takes in the revolution are jeopardizing her family, one of the things she holds dearest.
After her sisters join the revolution, her son Nelson wants to join. Patria is hesitant to
allow Nelson to go to the capital to join the revolution because she worries for his safety as the government continues efforts to crush it. Though she wants to protect him, she knows she cant stop him. Instead, she thinks, of a way for Nelson to be in the capital, under supervision so he
wouldnt be running wild with women or his rebel uncles. (152). The revolution has infiltrated another layer of her personal life when her son joins, someone even closer than her sisters, especially because she has already lost one of her children. The worry for her son in the revolution brings her even closer to the cause because she can no longer ignore the Domincan Republic's problems with her son spouting news of chaos from the capital. Later, Patria invites her sisters and other revolutionaries inside her home. Pedrito is angry because he worries about being left bereft of their possessions if the government finds out. As he exclaims to Patria, You crazy, mujer, to invite them into the house! You want your sons to lose their patrimony, is that what you want? (165). After Patria tells Pedrito that Nelson does not want the farm, Pedrito joins the revolution as well. Patrias familial relation to the revolution goes deeper than that of her sisters because both her son and husband have joined. She loves her whole family, and most are part of the revolution.
Patrias reason for joining the revolution speaks to the core of her moral foundation. As a
woman of God, Patria is devout and dedicated to the church. Whenever Patria is dealing with grief or family issues, she turns to her god for solace. Her personal religious experience of the Virgencita solidifies her connection to her religion, and when she is worried about her sisters and son she seeks solace in prayer. Religion is woven into her being, and it is a fundamental part of her identity. The final motivation for Patria to join the revolution is centered around religion. She goes on a retreat with her church group and the surrounding mountains are shelled while she is in the church. She saw the wonder on [a young boys] face as the life drained out of him, and I thought, Oh my God, hes one of mine! [...] I cried all the way down that mountain. I looked out the spider-webbed window of that bullet-riddled car at brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, one and
all, my human family. (162). Though the boy that dies is not one of her own children, she feels connected to him through God. Her obligation to help and protect others she views as family from Trujillos regime drives her to the revolution. She prays on the ride down the mountain, but in her prayer is a vow to not allow her family to suffer. Her religious views change through this vow, to now keep her human family safe in the name of God. Additionally, she compares herself to one of Gods angels when referring to the mood of the room of her next church meeting as being, silent with the fury of avenging angels sharpening their radiance before they strike.
(163). As an angel of God who believes in carrying out the will of her benevolent deity, the complete constant of her life and belief that she lives by, her connection to the revolution is one of belief in self identity. Patria would do anything if she thought God willed it, and as she prays for her family she decides that the Dominican Republic needs a religious revolution. Patrias drive originates from her deep connection to her internal beliefs, making her choice to join the revolution a matter of integrity rather than a matter of choice.
The connection and drive Patria has in the revolution is common across different types of revolutionaries. Familial connections to causes can strengthen our drive because we are more empathetic to those we are close to. However, internal impetus is often stronger than external drive. When people are directly impacted by an issue and their identity, seen by others or themselves, is put into the crosshairs of an idea they will develop a stronger connection and drive. You can often identify peoples motivations by observing their delivery. For Patria, it is her family and religion that drive her, so she combines the power of her church with the power of the revolutionaries. Identity and relationships are complicated, but often we can see a person's drive by what they prioritize.?What differentiates homo sapiens from other humanoids? Essentially, what does it mean to be human? 
I think that the main difference between homo sapiens and other humanoids is that homo sapiens are social, community seeking, and storytelling creatures. 
The need to have communities and social interactions is a part of homo sapiens DNA, during times when we were accompanied by many other animals that fell under the genus homo, this trait proved itself to be a key component in our survival.
 Hunting is much harder when you are alone, but when there are many people communicating about what should be done next makes the task much easier. Neanderthals usually hunted alone or in small groups. Sapiens, on the other hand, developed techniques that relied on cooperation (Harari, 36) Another quote that provides evidence to support the concept that our need for social interactions was so useful states, In a one-on-one brawl, a Neandthral would probably have beaten the Sapiens. But in a conflict of hundreds, the Neanderthals wouldn't stand a chance. (Harari, 36) These quotes show that unlike many of the other humanoids, homo sapiens had the ability to work together. Homosapiens were not the strongest or the biggest, but since they could cooperate effectively in large groups and adapt to challenges quickly and effectively, homo sapiens survived when the other humanoids, like the Cathedrals, faced extinction. 
The ability to tell stories comes from our unique language. Not only were we the first animal to develop a complex language, but to a scientist's knowledge, we still remain the only animal to possess this important ability. A green monkey can yell to its comrades, Careful! A lion!But a modern human can tell her friends that this morning, near the bend in the river, she saw a lion tracking a heard of bison. She can describe the exact location, including different paths leading to the area. With this information, the members of her band can put their heads together and discuss whether they should approach the river, chase away the lion and hunt the bison. (Harari, 22) Language gave homo sapiens the ability to communicate in-depth and then plan what should be done to address what was stated. The advanced language lead to stronger bonds between homo sapiens to be formed which ultimately leads to more success when hunting, trading, etc. This ability to speak about fiction is the most unique feature of the Sapiens language.(Harari, 24) Another unique part of the Sapiens language is that they can tell stories. Storys build trust, form bonds, lead to teamwork between homo sapiens. All of this leads to the survival of homo sapiens.
In conclusion, I think that what differentiates homo sapiens from other humonids is their ability to work together, communicate, and to tell stories. If, for example we found out that rats could do all these things, I probably would not think of them as humans, I assume that most people would agree with me. This is because of the bias that I grew up with when I think human, I see a friend, parent, teacher, of movie star. I dont see a rat. But I think that if other animals developed the abilities that would classify their intelligence as humans, secoity as a whole would need to change the way they see the world, and how they answer, what does it mean to be human.
?Stella Zwingi
Brian Crawford
American Literature
18 December 2020
Showing vs. Telling in Relation to Description, Imagery, and Theme in Short Stories 
Have you ever written a story that focuses on a specific character, and had the experience of thinking that your character sounds and acts nothing like a real person does, after reading your writing? This is because replicating human behavior in writing is really hard. Creating a character that acts like a real human being, involves understanding how the characters actions will be perceived by a reader. Writers must not only convince the reader that their character acts like a human being, but also create a relationship between the character and the reader that is similar to relationships the reader could have with another human. One way an author can do this, is by showing a characters emotions instead of directly telling the reader how the character feels. Showing a reader how a character feels is where the writer hints at a character's emotions by describing their actions, word choice, or body language, among other things. Showing makes the reader infer the emotions of a character by piecing together intimations the writer gives them. As opposed to telling, where the writer tells the reader how the characters feel, by describing the emotions they feel to the reader. A literature genre that often uses the technique of showing instead of telling, is short stories. Short stories often focus on showing character development or make a point about human character, so the technique of showing instead of telling is important to creating the intended relationship between the reader and the characters in short stories. Two stories that contain good examples of how showing instead of telling can be implemented this way are: The Lottery by Shirley Jackson, and Thank You, Maam by Langston Hughes. These short stories are prime examples of how showing instead of telling can be implemented to hint at a character's emotions. In these short stories, and in other literary pieces, the effects of showing instead of telling can be created in many different ways. A main way the technique can be implemented is with the description of a character's body language. This essay will explore how description can be used to execute the technique of showing instead of telling.
One tool that writers use to show how a character is feeling and hint at what they are thinking about is describing a character's body language. As humans, individuals learn how to read each other's body language to navigate social interactions. And although people may mostly do this subconsciously, the hints of a person's feelings gathered from observation of body language add up to a cursory understanding of their overall emotions. When a description of a character's body language is added to a piece of writing, the reader can read the character's body language like they would with a real human being. And especially since certain actions are directly correlated with specific emotions, sometimes a single mention of body language can clue the reader in onto the emotions of the character. This type of description is used in the story The Lottery. The story says, The people had done it so many times that they only half listened to the directions: most of them were quiet, wetting their lips, not looking around,(Jackson 5). This quote utilizes the description of body language to hint at how the people in the story are feeling by describing that the people are not engaging with others and licking their lips. The behaviors described in the quote leads the reader to believe that the characters are nervous. Since the action of licking your lips is either associated with eating, or as a habit of nervousness, the reader can use their deduction skills to infer that the characters are nervous. This quote also mentions the people being quiet and not looking around, and those behaviors show that the characters are not interacting with the other people around them. And since humans closing themselves off to others is an act of nervousness, this description of body language only hints further at the fact that the people are nervous. Earlier on in the same story the people's body language is mentioned as well. An example of this is in this quote, They stood together, away from the pile of stones in the corner, and their jokes were quiet and they smiled rather than laughed,(Jackson 2). Just like the other quote, the description of the people's body language hints to the reader that the people in the story are feeling negative emotions. In the previous quote, the body language uses showed that the people were nervous, and in this quote the description hints at the fact that they are uncomfortable, especially with the situation they're in. In the story The Lottery, the stones are used as part of a truculent murder, and so in preperation, people of the village gather stones in a pile. The description of how the people are distancing themselves is symbolic of the people distancing themselves from the murder the stones are involved in. And the other description of body language in the quote is the illustration that the people are telling jokes quietly, and smiling but not laughing. This description contrasts with the other description of the people's body language. Since the people distancing themselves shows they are uncomfortable with the situation, but smiling and telling jokes are generally associated with lightheartedness. The combinations of these opposing emotions hints at the peoples inner turmoil. The people in the story are uncomfortable, since you wouldn't distance yourself from something you're comfortable with, but since they are telling jokes and smiling they are also trying to hide that they feel uncomfortable. By making jokes and smiling, the people described in the quote are trying to signal that nothing is wrong to others and themselves. But their body language betrays the fact that they are uncomfortable. Because the people's jokes are quiet and they aren't able to laugh at the jokes, only smile, this hints at the reader that they actually aren't actually having fun, it's a facade. A third example of body language being described to hint at a character's emotions and thought process, can be found in the story Thank You, Maam. The story states, The woman did not watch the boy to see if he was going to run now, nor did she watch her purse which she left behind her on the day-bed. But the boy took care to sit on the far side of the room where he thought she could easily see him out of the corner of her eye, if she wanted to,(Hughes 3). This quote describes the body language of a boy that hints at what the boy is thinking. Because in this quote the boy chooses to position himself in the room away from the purse, and where the woman can see him, the reader understands that the boy wants the woman to think hes trustworthy. The woman gives the boy a chance to steal her purse, and instead of stealing it, he makes himself visible to her, signaling to her that he won't steal the purse, and also giving her an opportunity to see him being honorable. This description of body language and its meaning also show how the boy thinks of the woman. Because he wants her to see him as trustworthy, that means he respects her, and wants to get her respect. Just like from that description of body language, what the reader can conclude from the hints they receive, can not only tell readers the emotions of the characters, but can help them understand the motivations and thought processes behind the characters actions. And when the reader understands the story in this way, they will have a more complex view of the characters journey, and the story will gain new layers of meaning.
The technique of showing instead of telling can be implemented in many different ways, and in coordination with not only description, but other literary literary devices as well. But how does showing affect the way the reader perceives the characters and the story as a whole? Showing is more effective at creating a relationship between the reader and the character than telling is. This is because showing prompts the reader to infer what the characters emotions are which requires a more active reading style. Whereas with telling, the reader is directly told how a character feels, so they only have to passively absorb the information about the character. When the reader is only passively reading about the character they may become tepid about the character's journey and the story. Also, since the reader does not have to use their observation skills and inference while reading, the reader puts in less energy to understand the characters emotions, and thus may not have as much of a strong sense of empathy towards the character. But if when showing a character's emotions instead of telling, the author does not hint enough at the emotions being experienced, the reader may become confused with the characters actions and not understand the story as well. However, if there are enough hints about the characters emotional state, then showing is more effective than telling. An author should use showing instead of telling when they want to create a strong relationship between the reader and a character or characters. Showing is effective at this since, by making the reader become scrupulous while reading, and spend mental energy on figuring out the character's emotions, the reader has more of an investment in, and a bond with the character. And that bond, coupled with the reader's more complex understanding of the characters emotions caused by showing instead of telling, creates a strong relationship between the reader and the character. And that strong relationship can also go hand in hand with the reader developing empathy for the character in some stories. In stories where the author wants the reader to feel bad for a character, or to relate to the character's situation, the author may use showing to stir the reader's empathy. Having the reader experience empathy for a character or characters, not only strengthens the reader's relationship to the character, but enforces the involvement a reader has in the story. Empathy formed through the act of showing instead of telling makes a reader's experience of reading a story more deep, and builds their empathy for all humans, not only fictional ones. 
?Stella Zwingli
Brian Crawford
English 100
17 March, 2020
Word count Draft 2: 1045
Word count Final draft: 1060
Bully
	Jamie, I presume you know why you're here, correct? He looked right at Jamie and they locked eye contact.
	Yes Principal Christoferson. Jamie looked away and turned to look at her mother's dry, magenta lips.
	What you have said to your classmate is very serious, do you understand why?
	Yes. Jamie's lips were pressed together, her face was solemn.
		What made you say something to Celia?
	I dunno. Jamie mumbled, still looking down. Jamie's mom jumped in.
	Yes, why did you? Celias so nice. She turned to Principal Christoferson, Jamie has been moody in the past month, she might have just been having a bad day. Jamie continued to stare at her left shoe. 
		So Jamie, were you having a bad day?
	I dunno. Jamie squirmed in her seat.
	Did anyone make you bully Celia, Jamie? There are other students that harass her.
	I dunno. Jamie's mom flashed a forced smile at the principal and turned to Jamie. 
	Honey, stop saying that.
No.  Jamie remembered what had happened perfectly. It had only happened a week ago. She pressed her lips tighter. After the principal paused he addressed Jamie. 
How about we take a break. 
Thank you, Jamie's mother smiled at the principal and reached her hand over to Jamies chair. 
Jamie walked down the quiet hallway with her mother a few steps behind her. The hallway smelled like stale popcorn, stale but still salty with a hint of butter. Jamie paused to look at a poster about Joan of Arc. Her mother at the bathroom door looked back at Jamie. Jamie could feel her mother watching her but kept her attention directed at the poster for a few more seconds. She turned at the girls bathroom, hesitated, and opened the door. Once the door was shut Jamie's mom started talking. Jamie, try to be more expressive. You dont want a suspension on your record, right? Especially so close to graduation. 
Yeah. Jamie said her voice in a hard and steady tone. Before her mom started a new sentence, Jamie ducked into the nearest stall. After sitting down, Jamie let out a breath. Before she could think, she was remembering the incident.
Jamie sat alone, the Ziploc bag of baby carrots the only thing left of her lunch. Jamie thought about eating the carrots, but before she could decide someone sat down at her table.
Hey Jamie. Jamie looked up and her eyes widened for a second.  I im sorry about what Jaden said about your new hair. Even though it is a boys haircut, I think it looks nice. Jaime scuffed the floor below her bench. Jamie? Did you hear me?
Yes.
Umm okay?
What do you want?
 Umm, you could say thank you. I gave you a compliment. The table was silent. Celia waited a second and stood up. I was just trying to be nice, I thought maybe we could be friends since Jamie didnt know what came over her, but she stood up. Her nails pressed into her hands, her palm was wet and warm, the red crescent impressions would last for hours.
Were not similar! It came out strong and loud. Everyone in the cafeteria was looking. You dont understand! Well never be friends, I dont want to be friends with someone like you. You deserve to be bullied!
Jamie's mom knocked on the stall door.
Honey, we should be getting back to the principal's office. Jamie opened her eyes and stood up. After leaving the stall Jamie went to the sink, keeping her eyes on the floor till he got there. She turned on the faucet and stuck her left hand under the soap dispenser. Pink, shiny and pearlescent, cherry scented soap pooled in the middle of her hand reflecting and distorting the lights above. Jamie's mother reached over and ruffled her hair through Jamie's soft, short hair. I miss your long hair, it was so pretty on you. You've changed a lot in the past month. Jamie compressed the soggy brown paper towel into a ball and threw it in the trash. Her hand smelled of the soap, staining her skin with scent.
	They walked back down the hallway and back into the principal's office.
	Did you think about what I have asked you Jamie?
	Yes.
	Do you know why you did it?
	I was having a bad day, she upset me.
	Jamie, I understand having a bad day, but taking your anger out on someone else is not the right way to deal with one. Jamie's nails cut into her arm, leaving red half moons in her uncomfortable skin.
	I know. I regretted what I said right after.
Okay. The principal leaned back in his chair. I have decided not to suspend you. 
Thank you so much Principal. Jamie's mother's lips were stretched across her face, her coffee stained teeth contrasting with her bright fuchsia lipstick color. But Jamie, no more incidents like this Also, you are going to have to do some things before we can forget about this matter. You will write a letter to Celia and his parents, realizing what he had said he corrected himself a second later, her parents. There was a pause where Jamie's mother uncrossed and recrossed her legs and no one else moved. The principal continued, You will also have lunch with the school counselor twice a week until the end of the school year. Do you have any questions?
No. Jamie looked straight at him for a second then averted her eyes. He addressed Jamie's mom.
I need you to sign a few papers, give me a second to fill them out. While she waited, Jamie's eyes wandered around the principal's office. Her mother kept glancing at the principal or Jamie. Jamie studied a dark brown mask from another culture on his wall. The holes for the eyes were tiny and the mask had small painted lines all over the face. It was made from a coconut husk, it had little brown hairs sticking up on the wood like outside. Her mom and the principal were done. Jamie's mother stood up and looked at Jamie.
Thank you Principal Christoferson. He nodded. Jamie stood up and took one last look at the mask, then left with her mom.
?The Renaissance was the time of revitalization of classical ideas from Greece and Rome.  People were beginning to think for themselves and started to believe that they (man) were the center of their universe.  It was the era of embracing education, science, and the arts.  After the Renaissance, the Reformation followed.  Soon people began questioning the church and the people who held power.  Martin Luther was a primary figure in the protestant reformation who did not agree with the ideas of the Renaissance.  He spread his ideas and ended up getting people to read and interpret the Bible for themselves.  The Renaissance and the Reformation are all about new perspectives and attempting to define humanism. 
During the Renaissance, man is the measure of the universe.  God had always been the basis for everything.  The common belief of the time is that God is the reason why everything happens.  Originally, no one questioned the church, but people began wondering if there was a God.  If there was no God, how do the priests have power if their power comes from God?  The Renaissance was all about being able to question things and be skeptical.  They valued education and art; teaching people to be individuals.  Art is representative of the time and what society is going through.  Renaissance art was no longer ashamed to portray the (male) human body.  It was incredibly detailed and portrayed genitalia.  It shows that they thought humans were beautiful and that their actions were significant.  Man became the ultimate representation of God. 
The Reformation soon followed the Renaissance.  This was the time of reforming the church.  Martin Luther was an influential figure during this era.  He believed the Bible was the central source of religious authority, leading to people reading and interpreting the Bible on their own.  He also believed that the church was corrupted and you should not buy indulgences -reduced punishment after death, but instead, have faith.  Luther wrote 95 theses essentially saying that the Bible was the center of religious authority and that you cannot buy indulgences.  His ideas spread through the printing press and he influenced a lot of people to question the church.  This led to uprisings that eventually created new branches (protestant church) of the Catholic church.  Martin Luther hated the renaissances view of humanism but still believed that people should be educated and be able to form their own conscious decisions.
The Renaissance and the Reformation was a period of education and questioning revealed truth.  Even though they both had the same aspect of skepticism and learning, their views of humanism were the opposite.  The Renaissance believed that humans should be appreciated and that man is the measure.  The Reformation believed that the human nature is corrupted with sin.  All in all, without the Renaissance and the Reformation, Europe would not be the place that it is today.?My feet echoed empty sounds as I trotted around mothers opulent home. I had been home all day again, but the time was productive; I went on a run and honed my tree climbing skills after receiving gibe from the local baddies. Now, my stomach rumbles and my mouth waters, the fabled treat of cream that mother tries to keep from me filling my mind. I crouched down as I slowly approached the land of the forbidden, the kitchen. With its hardwood floors, my steps had to be meticulous; sound would alert the guardian. I stalked the silver appliance that held my greatest desire, the flavor of joy, the feeling of pure bliss. As I finally reached the silver ice chest, I let out a sigh, the tension flowing out of my joints. A small victory. Beginning to claw at the box of destiny I could almost taste that sweet relief of my favorite frozen treat. However, when I felt the looming presence of the gatekeeper, I froze.
Molly, stop clawing at the freezer. The great beast of the kitchen had detected me and rushed me off to the pedestal of the table. My head fell as my bones grew heavy, the treat I desires leaving my reach. This is the fifth time in two days! I told you to stop, that stuff is bad for you. Sitting in my chair I bark a response, as always, falling on deaf ears. I didnt expect it to work, me and mother live in totally different worlds, she never understands me or my valiant struggle. I suppose I shall have to wait until she leaves it unguarded and use my wit to swipe the creamy treat. Until then, I retreat to the comfort of my bed, dreaming of the sweet creamy flavor on my tongue, remaining ever vigilant for when I find another opening.?Ketchup Donuts
Jacob: I would like to add ketchup to my donut.
Luca: Do not adulterated that delicious item with that disgusting tomato paste. 
Alex: I have scrutinized over this donut meticulously with for hours on end and determined that ketchup is a requisite for donut consumption.
Jacob: I would like to reiterate, I want my donut with ketchup!
Alex: May I use that for our advertising campaign, your quote verbatim I want my donut with ketchup!
Luca: Thats awfully muscid of you to want ketchup on donuts you housefly.
Alex: Hark! Shade hath been thrown.
Luca: You are bereft of your dignity, but whos to say you had any in the first place?
Alex: Hark! Shade hath been thrown yet again!
Luca: Your unkempt presence is not permitted in this establishment you bum.
Jacob: Well go thy way, thy limaceous troglodyte who slithers on the floor. I thought you were my friend you duplicitous fiend.
Alex: Well then, you see my insidious plan to break up peoples friendships with ketchup-filled donuts has succeeded.
?
Elizabeth Pham
George Heinrichs
History
1/17/20
Many aspects of todays society have been influenced by Rome. You can predict where our society is heading based on past events and patterns that occur throughout history.  We learn from the past, then take that knowledge and apply it to situations.  It can be used to steer society away from going down that path or help it get ahead.  For example, the dominant religion in todays culture is Christianity which came from Rome.  During war, people try to recreate Hannibals attack hoping to have the same victory.  The study of Rome has influenced many aspects of todays culture and has also predicted the direction of where our society is heading; based on the patterns of Romes history. 
	Language has the power to neutralize violence or start violence. Mark Anthonys speech (44 BCE) is an example of an event that caused civil unrest just by having a persuasive argument.  He flipped the all the things Brutus said about Caeser and made it so that it would no longer target Caeser, but Brutus.  His speech convinced the people who were originally against Caeser that Caeser actually did good things.  Later on in history (1920), Hitler had the same situation.  He had a persuasive speech that appealed to his audience and convinced them that the Jews were the cause of all their problems.  The pattern of someone having a convincing speech with the intention of causing civil unrest, neutralizing violence, or starting violence occurs frequently throughout history.  You can probably expect that a lot of these types of events will be prominent in the future because of all the new ideals of society today.
	When you appeal to the masses ( normally the poor/ middle class) it usually means that they were trying to gain power.  The Gracchi Brothers were rich men who tried to create social reforms.  They try to give the people more votes and give the poor land.  To the Romans, it sounded like they were trying to become kings.  During elections, candidates running for power try to appeal to their audience.  Some may look unkempt to seem more humane and relatable such as Boris Johnson.  They make promises that the people would want to hear to get their vote.  
	Historical events of Rome widely shape and predict the direction our culture is heading.  It is important to study the history of Rome because you want to take these examples and apply them so you dont make the same mistakes.?The study of Rome teaches us about how people will follow historical trends. Staring with the mythic period, a time of kings, tyrants, and Roman legends, Rome begins its governmental trends. This period ended around 509 BCE when Tarquinius XX is assassinated by Brutus because of his cruel ruling. Brutus says, Sic semper tyrannis. (Notes), meaning dust or death to all tyrants, before killing Tarquinius. From that death, the Roman republic is born. This moment is looked upon with honour by most people as it was the end of an autocracy that oppressed many people. The moment was celebrated and from then on in Rome, if someone was getting popular and ignoring the greater prosperity of the kingdom, they would be killed for acting like a king. 
This rule was carried on through history for about five hundred years causing the deaths of both kings and people the senate didnt like. From 143 BCE to 63 BCE the Grachi Brothers became popular with their stances in politics; they gave more votes and gave land from the rich to the poor. Once again, the senate decided to kill them because they were acting like kings not good rulers. One brother died of fernature and the other was forced to comit suicide. Following the Grachi brothers, around 63 BCE, the Triumvirate involving Crassus, Pomppy, and Julius Cesar was formed. Julius was growing popular with the people of Rome, winning wars, territory, and riches for the empire. When Crassus died and Julius began to sleep with Cleopatra, a queen, Pomppy began to doubt Julius with a little coercion from his fellow senators. Julius was seen as a king by the senate for being ambitious and sleeping with a queen. He was killed by a descendant of Brutus and twenty two other senators because they didnt want one to get to much glory. The assassins also said Sic sempur tyrannis (Notes) when killing Julius because he was acting like a king.
 Finally, this instance happened again about two thousand years later, in the assasionation of U.S. President Lincoln. The assassin said, once again, Sic sempur tyrannis (Notes) before killing the man, doing so because he viewed Lincolns actions to be comparable to that of a king. Rome has repeated itself many times before, but what is important about this is when we can predict current events based on the past. Studying Rome gives us the ability to follow historical trends and begin to understand the flow of history within empires.?Hinduism vs. Daoism
Though the pragmatic rules are nearly the reverse of each other, the religions function the same towards rulership. 
Goals - 
goals
Obey 
Wait for Jesus/ heaven
obey/ kinda heaven
harmony
stability
Filial piety
Enlightenment 
The way
Reach Moksha
Get out of samsara
Placement 
Communal good
personal/communal good
personal/communal goods
Communal good
Personal good
Personal good
Personal good
In religions focusing on personal good, none must organize because they are focused on themselves and do not find pleasure in that which is not thies. 
In religions with goals focusing on community good  it is easier to rule, in religions focusing on communal good, it is easier to rule.
Basement of goals to benefit. Who benefits from the goals?
Religions based in communal good will often have an outside force to drive them into their practices whereas religions based in personal good are practiced through a force of personal drive.
Religions interact with their goals differently, but many of the goals fall into two categories of communal good and personal good.
We said, "Go down from it, all of you. And when guidance comes to you from Me, whoever follows My guidance - there will be no fear concerning them, nor will they grieve. (Surah). Guided by power.
And to man He said, "Because you listened to your wife, and you ate from the tree from which I commanded you saying, 'You shall not eat of it,' cursed be the ground for your sake; with toil shall you eat of it all the days of your life. (Genesis). Punishment for all because one didnt obey.
The great man regards Heaven and Earth and the myriad things as one body. He regards the world as one family and the country as one person. (fore.yale.edu, Sacred Texts). One as whole - filial piety 
I have a sense of shame before the Way and its Virtue, and for that reason I do not venture to raise myself up in deeds of benevolence and righteousness, or to lower myself in deluded and perverse practices. (The Complete Works Of Chuang Tzu). balance within oneself. 
Upon his death, he told his disciples: Be ye lamps unto yourselves. (Buddhism Religious Basics). Death of the Buddha does not marked by return or new leader - you to you - dahlilamma helps not rules
Whether practicing, appeasing a deity, or finding personal peace,is the goal, religions have overarching goals that everyone in the community strives for. Religions interact with their goals differently, but many of the goals fall into two categories of communal good and personal good. Judaism is a prime example of a religion focusing on communal good. Stories follow a pattern of god giving an order, people not obeying, then being punished, feeling sorry, and god forgiving. This story form gives obeyal center stage. If the people had obeyed god, nothing bad would have happened. In the story of Adam and Eve, god gives the order to not eat from the tree of good and evil. The humans are tricked into doing it and for their disobeyal, god says, Because you listened to your wife, and you ate from the tree from which I commanded you saying, 'You shall not eat of it,' cursed be the ground for your sake; with toil shall you eat of it all the days of your life. (Genesis). In this story all humans are punished for Adam and Eve disobeying god. The goal of obedience to please a deity is common through multiple religions, and is centered in communal good. In Judaism, following gods orders reduces punishment. In Christianity, waiting for Jesus and following his ideals makes the world kinder because Jesus focused on helping the less fortunate and being a generally good person. In another example of a religion with the goal of communal good, Confucianism bases itself in a hierarchical system. Unlike Judaism and Christianity, Confucianism doesnt have one god to appease, it has rules that must be followed for a harmonious society. A master of Confucianism said, The great man regards Heaven and Earth and the myriad things as one body. He regards the world as one family and the country as one person. (fore.yale.edu, Sacred Texts). This ideal unity of people shows the focus of confucianism on everyone staying in their place to keep harmony. Rather than a god to appease, the religion is focused on communal stability, looking to the past for guidance.
Though multiple religions focus on communal good, many also focus on personal good. In contrast with Christianity and Judaism, Islams goal of obeyal is more focused on personal good. The idea of appeasing god isnt for the whole community but the individual. As god said, "And when guidance comes to you from Me, whoever follows My guidance - there will be no fear concerning them, nor will they grieve. (Surah). The decree of obeyal to guidance is not referring to salvation for an entire group, rather it is for the individual who chooses to follow. Though the goal of obeyal and pleasing a deity is prominent in this religion, people do it for their own good. Additionally, religions that are relatively godless, or dont have a set belief on what or if god is, also have goals that feed into personal good. In Buddhism, the goal is to reach enlightenment and become a Buddha. This goal is personal to the practitioner of Buddhism, it is not for the purpose of helping others, but oneself. Before the Buddha died he told his disciples, Be ye lamps unto yourselves. (Buddhism Religious Basics). The Buddhas advice was not to cast radiance onto others but to find it in oneself. The idea of finding ones path to harmony in oneself is shared in Taoism, too. The personal venture to find fulfilment in life is shared through Buddhism and Taoism, yet they function differently from each other in how to get there. Finally, Hinduism is a religion with the main goal set to moksha, getting out of samsara, the cycle of rebirth. The goal can be achieved through following ones dharma, purpose and place in life, and accumulating karma that will increase their status in the next life. The system puts a society in order because everyone is born as one thing and follows it until they die, but the goal is for each individual person to reach moksha. 
Religions that are similar in beliefs and goals are very different from each other or very similar depending on the purpose of goals, and religions that are vastly different in beliefs and goals can be very similar to each other or very different depending on the purpose. ?The three Abrahamic religions, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, have all similarly shaped societies today to be inherently misogynistic and oppressive of women. This is portrayed in the texts from each religion, like the Quran and the Bible, and how women are represented and treated in each. United States societies today are heavily influenced by Christianity, just how societies in the middle east are dependant on Islam. The sexism shown in these religions has caused societies influenced by them to oppress women and treat them as nothing more than objects and property. 
In the US, where, in 2016, Christians made up more than 70% of the religious population, there have been strict rules set for only women that oppress them in society. Until 1920, women were not allowed to vote. Women could not have their own names on their passports until 1937. They were not allowed to sue for sexual harassment until 1977, and until 2013, women were not allowed to serve in combat. Oppression of women is not an issue of the past in the United States, and it can certainly be traced back to the objectification of women in the Bible. For example, many times Eve is not referred to by name but simply and his wife, [...] the man and his wife, but they were not ashamed. In this verse (verse 25, chapter 2), Eve is simply shown as the wife of Adam and nothing more. This theme is shown even today as a womans only role being a wife, not a woman capable of working and making her own decisions. Later when Eve eats the forbidden fruit God tells her "I shall surely increase your sorrow and your pregnancy; in pain you shall bear children. And to your husband will be your desire, and he will rule over you." (verse 16, chapter 3). This explicitly states that Adam, the man, rules over Eve and is in charge of her. This sets up all societies that are influenced by this text to, consciously or unconsciously, internalize these gender roles and create laws around them, no matter how ridiculous they might seem. There is no logical reason that a woman should be able to speak up for what she believes in, whether this may be to vote or protect herself, but these laws have been created after years upon years of internalizing these gender roles. 
In a Surah of the Quran entitled The Women, a womens place in society is shown. This chapter sets up laws for both men and women to follow. In verse 34 it states Men are in charge of women by [right of] what Allah has given one over the other and what they spend [for maintenance] from their wealth. So righteous women are devoutly obedient, guarding in [the husband's] absence what Allah would have them guard. This verse states that women are mere property of there husbands, and their jobs are to be obedient and mind their husbands. This is an extremely problematic way to view women, though, throughout history, has been widely followed. In fact, in Saudi Arabia, where more than 90% of the population is Muslim, women were only recently allowed to travel alone. As of August 2019, women in Saudi Arabia were allowed to travel without their husbands or a male escort, as well as being able to drive and attend sporting events. Though in the US women are allowed to do all these things and more, it is a huge breakthrough for the women of Saudi Arabia. After spending years of injustice only because they were born female, this small right is finally granted to them. This society that follows what the Quran has laid out has neglected to fully think about the unjust rules it entails. A woman should not be kept from traveling alone, yet the rules state that her husband, the man in charge of her, must go as well. 
Since American societies nowadays are shaped by Judeo-Christian laws, and many countries, especially in the Middle East and parts of Africa and mainly Muslim societies, the three Abrahamic religions are fueling sexism within many societies around the world today. Women are barred from doing even the simplest of tasks, only because they are female. The three Abrahamic religions have many similarities in the sense that they have rules that punish women for being women and create incredible injustices to the females in each society. A woman should not be punished and oppressed because of her sex, something that she did not choose, but, more importantly, should not be ashamed of just because her society and religion tell her to be. 
Sources: 
https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/02/world/middleeast/saudi-arabia-guardianship.html
https://bestlifeonline.com/womens-rights-restrictions/
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-middle-east-49201019
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religion_in_the_United_States
https://www.chabad.org/library/bible_cdo/aid/8167/jewish/Chapter-3.htm
https://quran.com/4
?Report on conditions at prison, La 40.
The conditions in La 40 are abysmal at best. The guards lack clemency when dealing with prisoners and the culinary care of the prisoners is remiss. The prisoners look slim and they hardly have the energy to plod around their cells, many only look to the window. Their health is putting prisoners in jeopardy of many illnesses. Additionally, the guards of La 40 harass prisoners in attempts to coerce them into doing deeds for the government. Though we are unaware of the composition of such cruelty, the prisoners were able to show us a few visible bruises and broken teeth in the interviews. The prisoners did not talk to us much, but thanks to a young lady at another prison we ascertained more information on the activities taking place there, though she gave us no personal account. La 40s prison system was being sold to us by the guards in the guise of a humane prison, but from the actions taken by the guards to hand pick prisoners, and the behavior of the prisoners, we are given intimations of a venal system that holds a punitive nature of function. Though we cannot allow the guards and government run rampant and continue on this belligerent path towards prisoners, we must be wary in our approach to a possible red area.?
In the Time of the Butterflies is a fictional story based on real events on 4 sisters grow up under the rule of a ruthful dictator named Rafael Trujillo. They end up forming an underground revolution to combat and restore order to the Dominican republic. Mate is one of the 4 Mirabal sisters who ofter looks up to Minerva, one of the other sisters and often times doing things just to please others because of herself. Throughout the book, she seems to feel conscious of what others think of her and makes an effort to please others, even if it means dropping everything she has been working for the revolution.
After palomino delivers the shipment of guns which first showed Minerva and Manolo were in the movement it raises some confusion for Mate and they explain everything to her about it. I wanted to join. I could feel my breath coming short with the excitement of it all. But I masked it in front of Minerva. I was afraid shed get all protective and say that I could be just as useful sewing bandages to put in the supply boxes to be buried in the mountants. (142) Before Mate encountered Palomino delivering the gun shipments to the Mirabal house she had no prior understanding of the underground revolution and Minervas connections to it. The evidence seems to suggest that because Minerva is in the revolution and she also sees Minerva as an older sister, she wants to prove to her especially that she is more than capable to participate in the revolution, and not stay behind the lines doing handiwork. Through the book, she seems to have a strong motive to prove things to people, and self-conscious of what other people might think of her. In the evidence, this happens when she wants to hide her excitement in front of Minerva, and again with Palomino.I dont want to be babied anymore. I want to be worthy of palomino. Suddenly, all the boys Ive known with soft hands and easy lives seem like the pretty dolls Ive outgrown and passed on to Minou The evidence suggests how she wants to be worthy of palomino by then again trying to prove to herself that to be Worthy of him she would have to participate in the revolution as much as she could. Even though Mate creates this image in her head where she needs to do this for Palominos approval, her anxiety is what causes her to join the revolution and be a big part of it. Without looking for Palominos approval and proving she is just as capable of Minerva This instance would have turned out way differently, and most likely would rather not join the revolution, or be way less involved than she is now. I think this because to start her only motivation to want to be really involved in the revolution was I was afraid  shed get all protective and say that I could be just as useful sewing bandages to put in the supplies boxes to be buried in the mountains.(142)  If she was not so worried about Minervas opinion, she would have been just as happy being behind the lines.
While Mate writes in her contraband Jornal, Minerva is being dragged into solitary confinement by guards because she was speaking out about the revolution and her own free will  As she was being marched down the hall, a voice from one of the cells they passed called out, Mariposa does not belong to herself alone. She belongs to Quisqueya! Then everyone was beating on the bars, calling out,viva la Mariposa! Tears came to my eyes. Something big and powerful spread its wings inside me. Courage, I told myself. And this time, I felt it. What the evidence suggests is how this experience impacted Mate more than anyone else. This is because having a sister like Minerva speaking out and rebelling against the government even in solitary shows how she feels courage for the movement because she is often seen wanting to be like others and want to impress them. Something big and powerful spread its wings inside me. Courage.(238) This means more to her than others in was such as this being more personal to mate than the other people in the prison. Seeing Minerva, her older sister fights back against the guards and her then feeling courage shows us Minervas influence on mate, especially in a scenario like this.Ive lost all interest in my studies. I just go to classes in order to keep my cover as a second-year architecture student. My true identity is now Mariposa (#2), waiting daily, hourly, for communications from up north  (143) The evidence shows how Maria Teresa is more devoted to the revolution, even by dropping her studies for the revolution which she has been working at for 2 years. It shows how her own thoughts on what other people thought of her influenced her to the point where she drops the things she had been working for a long time because by dropping all her studies we can see that she is devoting her life to the revolution by dropping all the studies she has worked very hard on.  
I started to shake and moan, and call out to mama to take me home.
Thank God, Minerva saw in time what was going on. She crawled into my bunk and help me, taking soft and remindful to me all the things I had to live and be patient for. I settled down. Thank god. (231)  The evidence shows how in this example and in many other examples Minerva has always acted as an older, responsible, and caring person who looks aways looks after her sisters and an almost perfect individual to Mate an example of this would be  Minerva says its better letting yourself go, not that she ever does. (231) implying how she might be envious of how Minerva can deal with problems better than mate, and we can also see that when the word her  is in italics, this shows us some key reasons why Minerva has such a strong influence on Mate because being prisoners can take a huge toll on the brain and having a sister there to talk to and having someone who struggles with you can be really big. It also shows another reason for Mate to be self-conscious about how Minerva especially thinks about her because she is seen as this loving, compassionate, and fear-free person which at times mate envies and therefore needs to prove to herself she can be more like her. In other instances, seem This can be tied too how she was so eager to join the revelation for the sole purpose of what would be assumed to be her want to impress and/or show she can be like Minerva, brave, having courage, and standing up for what she believes in. This also would be to show herself and prove to herself. (God, it seems like Ill always have a Minerva by my side being a better person than I am.) This This  Minervas influence on Mate, thinking Minerva is better than herself.
	From what we can see how Mate relies on other peoples feeling for her and its eventual backfiring this raises some questions. How would mate feel around people who dont appreciate her or like her? Would she try overly hard? Maby having a huge sense of anxiety over it? This also makes me wonder how much she thought through joining the revolution, did she consider how much farther down the rabbit hole she would go? What would be her breaking point where she said: no more, Im out. Would she even have one as long as there was anyone around left to judge her?
  ?
Figure 1. % frequency of shell thicknesses in populations of periwinkle snails.
Frequency of shell thickness of a population of periwinkle snails before European green crabs were introduced (1871), and after they were introduced (1982). Shell thickness as measured by a shell thickness index; population of 40 periwinkle snails in 1871; population of 36 periwinkle snails in 1982. (Adapted from Robin Seeley.)
The introduction of non-native species into ecosystems has various effects on the native populations. Our research evaluated the shell thickness of a population of periwinkle snails before the introduction of European green crabs (1871), and after the introduction of European green crabs (1982). We hypothesized that following the introduction of European green crabs to the ecosystem of Appledore Island, Maine, periwinkle snail shells would become thicker because of the selective pressure placed on them through green crab predation. 40 shell samples from 1871 and 36 shell samples from 1982 (both sample ranges were collected from the same beach) were collected and measured for thickness by Dr. Robin Seeley. Examining the data from Seeleys study, we calculated the percent frequency of shell thicknesses (as measured by shell thickness index) in the given populations and compared them to review changes in the attribute. We found that over time, the periwinkle snails developed thicker shells. In 1871, shell thickness ranged from 2 to 13 with shell thickness of 8 being the most frequently observed in the population. In 1982 shell thickness ranged from 9 to 18 with shell thicknesses of 14 and 15 being most frequently observed in the population. These findings support our hypothesis that, following the introduction of European green crabs to the ecosystem, periwinkle snails would evolve to grow thicker shells. A probable cause of the periwinkle snails shift from thin shells to thick shells is predation by green crabs. This provides a selective pressure by
creating an environment where snails with thicker shells are more likely to survive and reproduce and snails with thinner shells are more likely to be eaten. The evolution of the periwinkle snail population is an example of how the introduction of non-native species in an ecosystem often causes other species to evolve to better suit the new conditions of their environment.?Someone once told me, A story without symbols is like a cake without icing. (Brian Crawford, 2019). Symbolism is a key component in stories, it is a part of the representation of a story and gives life to a created world. Using objects, elements, nature, etc. to represent pieces in a story gives authors the ability to show the characters as the grow and change within their given environment. Recognisable through repetition, appearance in important moments, and experience within culture, symbols are a vital part of a story. Symbols can be used to represent a plethora of things and can be used in many contexts. The author Gal Faye uses many symbols in his 2016 novel, Small Country, as he follows the protagonist Gabriel through pre and mid-war Bujumbura. As the ten year old boy deals with his Rwandan mother and French father divorcing, an ever-complicating social life, and the dangers of the war and genocide knocking at his front gate, symbolic measures are taken to follow his growth into identity. Symbols are used in Small Country to follow the growth of Gabriel (Gaby) as he faces the painful reality of growing up. 
Gaby goes through many mental and emotional changes throughout the book. These changes are symbolized by natural elements and important objects. The first symbol of change, or rather, of something that will change, is mangoes. Each time Gabriel is reflecting on, or experiencing an event relating to his childhood, there will be mangoes present. The first time mangoes are referenced is in a scene describing the dailey shenanigans of him and his friends; fishing, peeing in rivers, etc. with the focus being on their mango picking and selling. Hanging out with one's friends and goofing off is a very childish activity and this immaturity is shown when they are trying to get to the Von Gotzens mangoes and are blocked by the wall around their garden. Back on home turf, we had our eyes on the big, fat juicy mangoes hanging in the Von Gotzens garden. (58). They want the mangoes that are just out of reach; the ones blocked by the wall of the Von Gotzens garden; the mangoes that symbolize the highest level of immaturity are out of reach of the gang. The Von Gotzens are very racist and eventually it is extreme racism that destabilizes the government, allowing us to infer that the wall that is blocking Gaby from mangoes, a happy childhood, is the racism that will soon rip him from his haven of innocents and short-lived childhood. Mangoes are then seen once again in both the rising and falling of a scene in which the enemy of the Kinyanera Boyz, Francis, attempts to drown Gaby and his best friend, Gino. The band of boys sneaks into Franciss garden to steal mangoes, but Gino and Gaby are caught and Francis attempts to drown them in the dirty river; only stopping when Gino lets out that his mother is dead. Both Gaby and Gino are torn up about this, Gaby because he cares for his friends, and Gino because his mother is still dead. Gaby then goes back to Franciss house to retrieve their mango-picking rods that were dropped, I picked up our rods and left the mangoes behind. Nobody would collect them now. [...] I couldnt have cared less about those mangoes rotting on the fresh grass. (106).  In spite of the fear of Francis, who has shown that he would harm Gaby, Gaby returns to get the rods back, presumably to pick more mangoes some other day. However, he lets the mangoes that he did pick rot, just as his innocence and immaturity is beginning to. He never gets the mangoes and so, loses a part of his childhood as he never goes mango picking again. Water was also a major part of this scene, as Francis was drowning them. Water often plays a role in major moments of change with mangoes. The act of attempt at drowning by Francis could be considered as a false, or impure baptism as in religious ceremonies baptism is a form of rebirth through cleansing. However, the water of the river is dirty, showing the impurity that it gives rather than the rebirth. This was a pivotal moment for Gaby as it is the first time he had experienced real violence. 
Water and mangoes are seen once again in a scene just before he is fully definistrated out of his childhood. After Gaby and Gino are nearly drowned, Gino bonds with Francis over their dead mothers, going as far as to include him in their group. When Gino informs that Francis is in, Francis takes the gang to a school just outside Bujumbura in the war zone to swim. In the taxi, the story references the road, saying, Mango trees laden with fruit adorned the main road, chausse Prince Louis Rwagasore. Gino tooted the horn when we spotted some kids from another neighborhood picking off mangoes with their long rods. (126). The trees with fruit and the young boys picking it was Gabys last glance at the childhood that had rotted way, as the mangoes he left behind did. This is also supported by the following scene when Gaby and friends go swimming. Gaby jumps off the high-dive just before they are shooed away by an adult and is extolled by his friends for his bravery. They then all run, in their birth-day suits (129), to the taxi and leave. They wore what they had on the day they were born. Gabys childhood is over now, he left behind the mangoes and got reborn through the water. This rebirth into maturity is then shown once again in a scene after Gaby and his friends are split, like the African rift they are located on, because of differing political views. After the war picks up in Burundi and the start of the genocide in Rawanda, Gaby spends time with an old Greek woman named madame Economopolus who he used to scam. She teaches him the value of books and he soon learns to love books as a way to travel to other places. He had lost much of his hope but she gave him some, and he learned to value that relationship. Later, Gaby meets up with his friends again and finds out that they had stolen Madame Economopoloss telescope. He is maddened by this and tells them to give it back. His old friends retort, You conned the Greek lady, too. That was before! And anyway, its not the same with mangoes I tried to grab hold of the telescope, but Gino pushed me backward. (152). The mangoes or his innocence were different to steal and con because they were something he thought he wouldnt mind getting rid of. It was before he lost the innocence the mangoes represented by letting them rot and found that he missed that ease. He learned the value of things he cares for and to hold onto them if he wants them to stay around. Gaby enjoys the books and relationship madame Economopolus gives him because the books give him hope; hope of living past the war. The telescope is used to see the stars and sky, often things associated with freedom and accomplishment, and represents the hope that he fears to lose by harming madame Economopolus. He now knows the value of mundane things because of what he has lost, and what he wants back. In addition, telescopes are used to see things clearly. Gaby now identifies stealing is wrong; he reflected back on himself. After his friends tell him they wont give the telescope back, Gaby tries to take it by force. He latches onto it in an effort to get it back, symbolizing he understands that hope is a commodity; and one he isnt willing to let go of.
As a final homage to his childhood and his wish to, make a fortress of my [Gabys] happiness and a chapel of my innocence. (159), Gaby writes a letter to his penpal Laure. Directly following Gaby killing a man, he writes to Laure a letter filled with white. The letter consistently repeats the line, Its been snowing for days and nights over Bujumbura. (174). It doesnt snow in Bujumbura. Water is present in moments of change and moments of pain; snow is frozen water. He is torn up about what he was forced to do and now doesnt know how to feel. What Gaby is referencing is something his father said to him before, which he writes in a letter to his deceased cousin, Christian. My father told me that on the day men stop waging war on one another, it will snow over the tropics. (161). The repeated line is similar to the expression of hell will freeze over before [something]. Hell is freezing over, but the war in Bujumbura is far from over and Gaby is still surrounded by bloodshed. Prior to the letter to Laure, Gaby was forced to kill a man; he had to light a car, drenched in gasoline, on fire and burn the man alive. The man was a hutu who killed one of Gabys friend's father; he committed a sin and got burned alive for it, then it snows over Bujumbura. The hell Gaby is in freezes over and he wants it to mean the end of the war. In addition, Gaby writes in the letter, Street children are decorating pine trees with red, yellow, and green, mangoes. (174). He has lost the last of his childhood and innocence after being forced to kill the hutu man. He has lost it all and now writes that the world is upside-down with the tropics freezing over before the war is over.  He wants peace as the doves and white flags in his letter fly over Bujumbura. Gaby fills his writing with white, the only non-white things are the mangoes that he writes. White is often a symbol of purity and he has lost his. He was filled with horror from his mother's stories of his dead cousins, he wished his mother away, he killed a man. The letter is filled with what he wants. He wants his innocence and his childhood from the mangoes; he wants the war to end and his hell to freeze over, to have snowfall over the tropics; he wants the purity he lost when he burned the hutu. 
The use of symbols throughout Small Country is intentional and precise to go along with Gabys growth out of childhood and into his identity. The symbols provide an engaging element and a deeper level to the writing, as a mechanism for proof of construct. Using symbols as a way of following the characters and their internal struggles is an effective way to write character traits and existence. To use symbol in this way gives characters dynamics and depth.
He uses them to show Gabys internal and emotional states, and the feelings, states, and struggles of external factors and how they relate.
Gal Faye uses natural and physical symbols in Small Country to show the conditions and perspective changes of characters. characters change and conflict. 
Maturity and innocence - Mangoes, telescope, water
The characters change (Gaby). His maturity impacts the course of the story and provides identifiable change in his relationships as both he and his friends change.  
Someone once told me, A story without symbols is like a cake without icing. (Brian Crawford, 2019). Symbolism is a key component in stories, it is a part of the representation of a story and gives life to a created world. Using objects, elements, nature, etc. to represent pieces in a story gives authors the ability to show the characters as the grow and change within their given environment. Recognisable through repetition, appearance in important moments, and experience within culture, symbols are a vital part of a story. Symbols can be used to represent a plethora of things and can be used in many contexts. The author Gal Faye uses many symbols in his 2016 novel, Small Country, as he follows the protagonist Gabriel through pre and mid-war Bujumbura. As the ten year old boy deals with his Rwandan mother and French father divorcing, an ever-complicating social life, and the dangers of the war and genocide knocking at his front gate, symbolic measures are taken to follow his growth into identity. Symbols are used in Small Country to follow the growth of Gabriel (Gaby) as he faces the painful reality of growing up. 
Gaby goes through many mental and emotional changes throughout the book. These changes are symbolized by natural elements and important objects. The first symbol of change, or rather, of something that will change, is mangoes. Each time Gabriel is reflecting on, or experiencing an event relating to his childhood, there will be mangoes present. The first time mangoes are referenced is in a scene describing the dailey shenanigans of him and his friends; fishing, peeing in rivers, etc. with the focus being on their mango picking and selling. Hanging out with one's friends and goofing off is a very childish activity and this immaturity is shown when they are trying to get to the Von Gotzens mangoes and are blocked by the wall around their garden. Back on home turf, we had our eyes on the big, fat juicy mangoes hanging in the Von Gotzens garden. (58). They want the mangoes that are just out of reach; the ones blocked by the wall of the Von Gotzens garden; the mangoes that symbolize the highest level of immaturity are out of reach of the gang. The Von Gotzens are very racist and eventually it is extreme racism that destabilizes the government, allowing us to infer that the wall that is blocking Gaby from mangoes, a happy childhood, is the racism that will soon rip him from his haven of innocents and short-lived childhood. Mangoes are then seen once again in both the rising and falling of a scene in which the enemy of the Kinyanera Boyz, Francis, attempts to drown Gaby and his best friend, Gino. The band of boys sneaks into Franciss garden to steal mangoes, but Gino and Gaby are caught and Francis attempts to drown them in the dirty river; only stopping when Gino lets out that his mother is dead. Both Gaby and Gino are torn up about this, Gaby because he cares for his friends, and Gino because his mother is still dead. Gaby then goes back to Franciss house to retrieve their mango-picking rods that were dropped, I picked up our rods and left the mangoes behind. Nobody would collect them now. [...] I couldnt have cared less about those mangoes rotting on the fresh grass. (106).  In spite of the fear of Francis, who has shown that he would harm Gaby, Gaby returns to get the rods back, presumably to pick more mangoes some other day. However, he lets the mangoes that he did pick rot, just as his innocence and immaturity is beginning to. He never gets the mangoes and so, loses a part of his childhood as he never goes mango picking again. Water was also a major part of this scene, as Francis was drowning them. Water often plays a role in major moments of change with mangoes. The act of attempt at drowning by Francis could be considered as a false, or impure baptism as in religious ceremonies baptism is a form of rebirth through cleansing. However, the water of the river is dirty, showing the impurity that it gives rather than the rebirth. This was a pivotal moment for Gaby as it is the first time he had experienced real violence. 
Water and mangoes are seen once again in a scene just before he is fully definistrated out of his childhood. After Gaby and Gino are nearly drowned, Gino bonds with Francis over their dead mothers, going as far as to include him in their group. When Gino informs that Francis is in, Francis takes the gang to a school just outside Bujumbura in the war zone to swim. In the taxi, the story references the road, saying, Mango trees laden with fruit adorned the main road, chausse Prince Louis Rwagasore. Gino tooted the horn when we spotted some kids from another neighborhood picking off mangoes with their long rods. (126). The trees with fruit and the young boys picking it was Gabys last glance at the childhood that had rotted way, as the mangoes he left behind did. This is also supported by the following scene when Gaby and friends go swimming. Gaby jumps off the high-dive just before they are shooed away by an adult and is extolled by his friends for his bravery. They then all run, in their birth-day suits (129), to the taxi and leave. They wore what they had on the day they were born. Gabys childhood is over now, he left behind the mangoes and got reborn through the water. This rebirth into maturity is then shown once again in a scene after Gaby and his friends are split, like the African rift they are located on, because of differing political views. After the war picks up in Burundi and the start of the genocide in Rawanda, Gaby spends time with an old Greek woman named madame Economopolus who he used to scam. She teaches him the value of books and he soon learns to love books as a way to travel to other places. He had lost much of his hope but she gave him some, and he learned to value that relationship. Later, Gaby meets up with his friends again and finds out that they had stolen Madame Economopoloss telescope. He is maddened by this and tells them to give it back. His old friends retort, You conned the Greek lady, too. That was before! And anyway, its not the same with mangoes I tried to grab hold of the telescope, but Gino pushed me backward. (152). The mangoes or his innocence were different to steal and con because they were something he thought he wouldnt mind getting rid of. It was before he lost the innocence the mangoes represented by letting them rot and found that he missed that ease. He learned the value of things he cares for and to hold onto them if he wants them to stay around. Gaby enjoys the books and relationship madame Economopolus gives him because the books give him hope; hope of living past the war. The telescope is used to see the stars and sky, often things associated with freedom and accomplishment, and represents the hope that he fears to lose by harming madame Economopolus. He now knows the value of mundane things because of what he has lost, and what he wants back. In addition, telescopes are used to see things clearly. Gaby now identifies stealing is wrong; he reflected back on himself. After his friends tell him they wont give the telescope back, Gaby tries to take it by force. He latches onto it in an effort to get it back, symbolizing he understands that hope is a commodity; and one he isnt willing to let go of.
As a final homage to his childhood and his wish to, make a fortress of my [Gaby] happiness and a chapel of my innocence. (159), Gaby writes a letter to his penpal Laure. Directly following Gaby killing a man, he writes to Laure a letter filled with white. The letter constantly repeats the line, Its been snowing for days and nights over Bujumbura. (174). It doesnt snow in Bujumbura. Water is present in moments of change and moments of pain; snow is frozen water. He is torn up about what he was forced to do and now doesnt know how to feel. What Gaby is referencing is something his father said to him before, which he writes in a letter to his deceased cousin, Christian. My father told me that on the day men stop waging war on one another, it will snow over the tropics. (161). The repeated line is similar to the expression of hell will freeze over before [something]. Hell is freezing over, but the war in Bujumbura is far from over and Gaby is still surrounded by bloodshed. Prior to the letter to Laure, Gaby was forced to kill a man; he had to light a car, drenched in gasoline, on fire and burn the man alive. The man was a hutu who killed one of Gabys friend's father; he committed a sin and got burned alive for it, then it snows over Bujumbura. The hell Gaby is in freezes over and he wants it to mean the end of the war. In addition, Gaby writes in the letter, Street children are decorating pine trees with red, yellow, and green, mangoes. (174). He has lost the last of his childhood and innocence after being forced to kill the hutu man. He has lost it all and now writes that the world is upside-down with the tropics freezing over before the war is over.  He wants peace as the doves and white flags in his letter fly over Bujumbura. Gaby fills his writing with white, the only non-white things are the mangoes that he writes. White is often a symbol of purity and he has lost his. He was filled with horror from his mother's stories of his dead cousins, he wished his mother away, he killed a man. The letter is filled with what he wants. He wants his innocence and his childhood from the mangoes; he wants the war to end and his hell to freeze over, to have snowfall over the tropics; he wants the purity he lost when he burned the hutu. 
The use of symbols throughout Small Country is intentional and precise to go alone with Gabys growth out of childhood and into his identity. The symbols provide an engaging element and a deeper level to the writing, as a mechanism for proof of construct. Using symbols as a way of following the characters and their internal struggles is an effective way to write character traits and existence. To use symbol in this way gives characters dynamics and depth.
Wind whipped around her face and in her hair, the whistling of the night sky ran through her head as her form flew up and up. She closed her eyes and enjoyed the view, another mind, another body, another sky. The world was torn up but she didnt feel the splitting feeling in her head, it felt nice, warm even, to be in another time. 
The crackling fireplace roared with vigor as it ate up the wood of the forest trees. Ellie felt safe here, on a plush couch with someone she loved. She didnt see the girl that she was holding and being held by, just the fire burning away at the wood. The fire was drenched in red and the arms around Ellie were gone in an instant. Her heart sank and the warmth that had surrounded her became an icy prison. On hands and knees she tried to push herself up, but heavy laid in her body and bones, paralized by a droplet of honey. The girl with pink hair and rabbit ears came into her vision but it was cloudy with scarlet. Bloody tears ran down the tawny face but none of the words could be heard through the rustle of leaves and a snapping branch.
Help me. A whisper yelled in Ellies ear as the branch under her feet snapped in two. Falling felt different that flight, it was scarier, it was colder, it was death. Though, flying is scary, the difference is you choose to fly, falling is abrupt and cruel. 
I picked up our rods and left the mangoes behind. Nobody would collect them now. [...] I couldnt have cared less about those mangoes rotting on the fresh grass. (106). Right after being nearly drowned by Francis and finding out that Ginos mother is dead and seeing him cry, Gaby goes back for the rods to pick mangoes so he could get more someday, and retrieve his innocence (the mangoes), but he left the mangoes that they were going to steal before to rot in the grass, never to be retrieved, similar to how Gaby will never get back that innocence and immaturity that he once had. 
Whenever I suggested going fishing, or a river trip or mango picking, everyone told me to get lost: they were kids games and we were too old for them now. (137). He let the mangoes rot and he never went mango picking again. His friend told him they were kids games and they left behind their childhood in favor of the war.
You conned the Greek lady, too. That was before! And anyway, its not the same with mangoes I tried to grab hold of the telescope, but Gino pushed me backward. (152). The mangoes or his innocence were different to steal and con because they were something he would let go of but the telescope is used to see the stars, it belongs to madame Economopolus who gave him and escape and hope through books; he has to hold onto hope lest he fall into depression because of the war. He also now identifies stealing is wrong, after losing the mangoes he gains hope but this commodity is one he won't let go.
Maturity and innocence are recurring themes in Small Country and are shown through symbols that are solid versus those that will wither away. Mangoes are a symbol of innocence and immaturity, used to show Gabriels growth as he lets go of his childish ideals. The telescope is used as a symbol of maturity and hope and is used to show Gabriels growth from entitlement to hope and his refusal to let go of the things he has learned to be thankful for.
Conflict and pain - fire, zippo, horse
The conflict that is shown through symbols gives focus to the internal and root problems of the country without cutting out Gabriels struggle. These symbols are often referencing religious things. 
A giant inferno rose up in the sky, licking the uppermost branches of the kapok trees. (172). The hutu called the horse called the devil is burned alive, the devil burns in hellfire.
I tossed the Zippo and the car caught fire. (172). The Zippo was used to set that car with the hutu (devil) in it ablaze as a symbol for racism creating hell for the people and burning people to the ground. 
The devil. Ahead of us, in the darkness, just beyond the beam of the headlights, we saw a shadow of a black horse pass by. The horse is called the devil for scaring the taxi driver. 
In the very same spot where we had glimpsed the beast's shadow on one stormy night, he now lay on the ground, his legs smashed , his body streaked with bloodied wounds. (170). In the same spot the horse is called devil, it is being tortured for being owned by a racist woman. It did nothing wrong but the devil is killed. 
The man in the taxi was a horse that was almost dead. (172). The horse is the devil and the man is one of a group members (Armonds) fathers killers and he is a hutu, the horse, the hutu, the man is the devil waiting to be killed.
False purity/want - horse, white
Symbols that are natural are often used after and during intense scenes as a way of speculation to the pain and acceptance of those hurt
In the very same spot where we had glimpsed the beast's shadow on one stormy night, he now lay on the ground, his legs smashed , his body streaked with bloodied wounds. (170). In the same spot the horse is called devil, it is being tortured for being owned by a racist woman. It did nothing wrong but the devil is killed. 
(174-175). He references white in many ways, the most prominent bing snow but it doesnt snow in Bujumbura the white and snow is the purity and peace that he wishes for. After killing someone he slows life down and tries to purify it by freezing water and scattering it over his life.
Its been snowing for days and nights over Bujumbura. (174). Snow is frozen water. It doesnt snow in bujumbura meaning that this is something that he is referencing as a cleanser to himself after killing the hutu.
Mangoes - symbol of innocence and/or immaturity
Back on home turf, we had our eyes on the big, fat juicy mangoes hanging in the Von Gotzens garden. (58). This line referenced a time when Gaby and the gang go mango picking and they want the mangoes that are just out of reach; the ones blocked by the wall of the Von Gotzens garden. The Von Gotzens are racist sadists and the mangoes that symbolize the highest level of immaturity are out of reach of the gang.
Our hands were sticky and black, our smiles broad and our hearts sugary. Ours was the well-earned rest of the mango-pickers. (60). This shows entitlement, speaking as if they deserved rest for doing little.
I picked up our rods and left the mangoes behind. Nobody would collect them now. [...] I couldnt have cared less about those mangoes rotting on the fresh grass. (106). Right after being nearly drowned by Francis and finding out that Ginos mother is dead and seeing him cry, Gaby goes back for the rods to pick mangoes so he could get more someday, and retrieve his innocence (the mangoes), but he left the mangoes that they were going to steal before to rot ing the grass, never to be retrieved, similar to how Gaby will never get back that innocence and immaturity that he once had. 
(126)
Whenever I suggested going fishing, or a river trip or mango picking, everyone told me to get lost: they were kids games and we were too old for them now. (137). He let the mangoes rot and he never went mango picking again. His friend told him they were kids games and they left behind their childhood in favor of the war.
Water - cleansing 
Its been snowing for days and nights over Bujumbura. (174). Snow is frozen water. It doesnt snow in bujumbura meaning that this is something that he is referencing as a cleanser to himself after killing the hutu.
White - false purity 
(174-175). He references white in many ways, the most prominent bing snow but it doesnt snow in Bujumbura the white and snow is the purity and peace that he wishes for. After killing someone he slows life down and tries to purify it by freezing water and scattering it over his life.
Fire - hell fire 
A giant inferno rose up in the sky, licking the uppermost branches of the kapok trees. (172). The hutu called the horse called the devil is burned alive, the devil burns in hellfire.
Zippo lighter - racism that sets things ablaze
I tossed the Zippo and the car caught fire. (172). The Zippo was used to set that car with the hutu (devil) in it ablaze as a symbol for racism creating hell for the people and burning people to the ground. 
Black horse - the scape-goat for anger (false devil)
The devil. Ahead of us, in the darkness, just beyond the beam of the headlights, we saw a shadow of a black horse pass by. The horse is called the devil for scaring the taxi driver. 
In the very same spot where we had glimpsed the beast's shadow on one stormy night, he now lay on the ground, his legs smashed , his body streaked with bloodied wounds. (170). In the same spot the horse is called devil, it is being tortured for being owned by a racist woman. It did nothing wrong but the devil is killed. 
The man in the taxi was a horse that was almost dead. (172). The horse is the devil and the man is one of a group members (Armonds) fathers killers and he is a hutu, the horse, the hutu, the man is the devil waiting to be killed.
Telescope - hope, stars, greek myths 
You conned the Greek lady, too. That was before! And anyway, its not the same with mangoes I tried to grab hold of the telescope, but Gino pushed me backward. (152). The mangoes or his innocence were different to steal and con because they were something he would let go of but the telescope is used to see the stars, it belongs to madame Economopolus who gave him and escape and hope through books; he has to hold onto hope lest he fall into depression because of the war. He also now identifies stealing is wrong, after losing the mangoes he gains hope but this commodity is one he won't let go.
Books - knowledge, power, escape ?
Figure 2. Impact of fungicure on populations of white and light orange yeast
Comparisons between percentages of white and Light Orange yeast in populations growing with and without Fungicure. Our study examined yeast of two types (one colored white and one colored light orange) to find which yeast type would survive better in conditions with and without an antifungal antibiotic. We measured reproductive success in percentages of yeast color observed in a community.?1. Read the rubric.
2. You can use Sapiens and your notes. 
3. You should have at least 2 quotes in your essay. 
4. Write the following at the end of your essay.
"I have neither given nor received unauthorized help on this work."
 
Answer one of the following prompts. 
1. Has farming been good or bad for humanity? 
2. Were hunter/gatherers more or less violent than agricultural groups?
Violence, slavery, lower quality of life, deasese, lack of diverse diet
Farming has been bad for humanity because it has decreased quality of life. Farming made people more prone to violence because rather than simply fighting over a resource that may be found elsewhere, people had their land to fight for. Land had to be protected because the land that a group lived on was where they had built their permanent settlements and were they had gone through the trouble of growing their crops. Losing land meant losing all the groups hard work in building and farming, but it also could mean losing their lives from starvation. With something so important to fight for human tribes would battle for land. In Sapiens, it states, The early farmers were at least as violent as their forager ancestors, if not more so. Farmers had more possessions and needed land for planting. (Harari, 81). Violence surged through the agricultural revolution, humans killing each other for a bit of land to plant for their own. But, what they were fighting so hard to protect wasnt protecting them in return. Or even supporting them as they support it.
Farming forced people to stay in the same places permanently so they could support their crops. Staying in the same place for long periods of time, eventually becoming forever, led to the easy affliction and spread of diseases. The spread of disease became easy and common in small permanent villages; tight spaces and lack of adept technology made sure of it. The population was able to boom with the development of farming but at the cost of cramped space and an unfulfilling diet. This is seen in Sapiens when the author describes the impacts of wheat farming, stating that, the oasis supported a large but cramped village of 1,000 people, who suffered from disease and malnourishment. (Harari, 83). The cramped spaces within villages of 1,000 were breeding grounds for disease and without the proper immune system development, children were subjected to the brunt of the attack. Children of the villages suffered greatly from the development of farming. When humans were hunter gatherers, children were burdens that would slow down the group. So, in response to that, women had children only every three to four years. They would breastfeed their children for longer, along with other methods, to avoid unwanted pregnancy. However, when farming villages were established children became less of a burden and more of a necessity because of the hard work that it took to farm crops. Women, in turn, didnt breastfeed their children for as long, because they had more of them and children could be fed with cereals. Without the milk of their mothers,  immune systems weakened and humans, especially children, were more susceptible to illness. 
The cultivation of domesticated foods also led to a denial of diversity in humans diet. People were more susceptible to famine and malnourishment because they became nearly solely reliant on a few species of grain for food. If a harvest for a year ended up dying, so would many people because they wouldnt have any other grains or fruit to harvest or any other animals to hunt. When looking at more elaborate farming techniques, Sapiens discusses the effects of the time consuming work. As more effort was directed towards cereal cultivation, there was less time to gather and hunt wild species. The foragers became farmers. Diversity in humans diet is required to live a full, healthy life. If there isnt the needed diversity, people wont get all the nutrients they need and they will become malnourished. Not all foods could be domesticated so humans slowly weaned off their wild diet, secluding their pallets in domesticated nurishment. 
An increase in violence and disease with a decrease in full nurishment meant a lower quality of life for all humans. To be happy is an important value of life and without it life becomes a sad and desolate existence. Farming degraded humans quality of life and for that, it was bad for humanity.?The environment in which a religion is formed has a deep impact on the practices and beliefs of the people. The three Aberhamic religions are examples of this phenomenon. Judaism was shaped by the central focus of the religion in Israel. The god in Judaism is the god of the Jews, not the god of all and he gifted them their sacred land of Israel, not the whole world. It would make more sense for a religion to have god be for everyone and for their land that was gifted to them by the almighty being to be the entire world, but the central focus holds their beliefs in a tight physical realm. These strong beliefs and practices could be attributed to the focus on the holy land and the temple where god sits. Additionally, when The Roman empire took over Israel, Jewish people had trouble because Rome allowed other religions to be practiced as long as the people also worshiped their gods, but their focused religion allowed the worship of only their god. This became a problem for them as it angered Rome, escalating further after a religious purist named Jesus was born and religious extremists became more prominent. The Roman Empire became angered by the Jewish people because they wouldnt worship their gods and religious extremists, Zealots, tried to fight them out of Israel. The conflict in Israel came to a pause when the Zealots burned the food and Rome allowed many to starve or be crucified before burning the temple and sending Jewish people all across the Roman empire. After their temple was burned, most Jews were lost because the physical nature of the religion was brought into question. If the place where god sits could be burned to the ground, the religion could be destroyed.
After Jews were dispersed all across the Roman Empire, Judaism began to spread, but there were drawbacks that Romans were often on the fence about. The nature of the religion was practiced, it wasnt easy to convert to, and Roman men didnt want to be circumcised. The issue of circumcision came from two places; one, Rome didnt like Jews and they could easily tell who was who by who was circumcised; two, men dont want to. The rise of the branch of Judaism known as Christianity stemmed from these problems. As a nonphysical, faith based religion, it was easy to convert to, it couldnt be destroyed because it was faith not objects, practices, or land, and there wasnt a needed sacrifice. All that was needed to be a Christian was to practice the Gospel, believe Jesus is your lord and savior and will return, and to be a good person. The simplicity of the religion and the difficulty of detection by the Roman Empire led to the wildfire spread. The Roman Empires interference led a physical religion to grow a stem into a nonphysical religion as a mechanism of spread and protection.?The renaissance and reformation were times of conflicting ideas in spite of one leading to the other. The renaissance in Europe was a time of rebirth after the plague, a time for art, literature, and philosophy to flourish. Humanist ideals spread across Europe, but not everyone supported this materialistic embodiment of ideas. Martin Luther was a christian extremist who despised the change brought by the renaissance because he believed the churches pursuit of art and materialistic beauty was causing the corruption of good christians. Ironically, using means of the renaissance, he spread his ideas, challenged the church, and caused another shift to european societal belief after the change of the renaissance. 
The renaissance focused on human beauty, the ability to create, and humans as the ideal. Classical Grecoroman philosophy was studied, and art and literature spread across the continent. With the printing press, ideas could have a physical state and be passed on without change from a game of philosophical telephone. This gave the opportunity for lower class people to read and for more churches to actually own a copy of the bible. It also gave a rise in religious artworks that people, and the church, sought after. 
Martin Luther used humanist literary methods to translate the bible so more people could read it, yet the idea of the church purchasing religious art was detestable to him. The church would allow people to pay for leniency in religious practice, and would tell people they could pay for their dead family to get into heaven. This alone was against god, but rather than using the money to spread practices, the church used it for art, and beautiful architecture. This sinning of the church caused Martin Luther to write his 99 theses calling the church out on its unwholly behavior. He spread his ideals of complete devotion and strict practice along with his writings and the bible. In the end this led to the branching of christianity, including a branch of lutheranism. But, in trying to repair what he saw as damage, Martin Luther allowed many to interpret religion their own way, changing the practice and beliefs of the bible ever since. His reaction to stop the church and specify religion to his beliefs ended up in a rebirth of peoples beliefs after they got to know their religion better. 
Europe was changed by both the renaissance and the reformation, following different ideas, but leading to new systems of belief that clash and overlap. The renaissance was not a full rebirth of Europe nor was the reformation a complete change to the people. The renaissance looked to humans as the measure for greatness and resulted in the progression of philosophy to humanist ideals. Martin Luther translated the bible so that he could write and control religion, setting it back on course to heaven. However, in doing so, he gave rise to a opposite to humanism in people getting their beliefs from a book. But, he also gave rise to a different idea, a combination of people basing their beliefs off a book, yet it was by the way they interpreted it in their own experience. The ideas of the renaissance and the reformation are still important today because people are still thinking about them, trying to understand the change from the depression of the black death to the rebirth of the renaissance to the personalized beliefs of the reformation. This shows us how one event leads to another; history moves in a circle, one thing leading to another, repetition of change and events, and peoples continuing reactions to actions.