-------Confidential Information Contained-------
Following is the personal report of Officer Robert Pierson of the Chicago Police Department. Pierson attended the protests that took place during the Democratic National Convention of 1968 under the guise of a yippie protester. A month after the convention ended, Pierson wrote this account of his experiences. 
--------------------
A year before the Democratic National Convention, I was chosen out of my department to infiltrate the protests that were set to happen around the time of the convention. Mayor Daley and the Head of the CPD had received reports stating that many large protest organizations around the country were planning to conduct large scale protests during the DNC of 1968. With the Civil Rights protests and Anti-War demonstrations becoming increasingly prevalent in large cities around the country during the years preceding 1967, it was expected that a protest would be held during the convention. 
When I was selected to participate in the infiltration of the protests, I was assigned the identity of Bob Lavin, a member of a biker gang who worked as a bodyguard among radicals often referred to as yippies. I joined the motorcycle group the Headhunters  for a month before joining a group of yippies in northern Illinois that were planning to stage a festival during the week of the DNC. My objective was to get hired as a bodyguard by one of the well known yippies leaders to better collect information on the plans and hidden ringleaders of the group. I was hired by Jerry Rubin and traveled with him and his friends for 4 months before the DNC. I attended the 3 day protests before leaving the group of yippies I had attended with and returning to the CPD.
 
On the first day of the protests, the yippie leaders along with other organizers led a peaceful march that resulted in the arrests of many of the protesters that had attended and all of the organizers. On the second day, after giving an absurdist speech, Abbie Hoffman, one of the most famous yippie leaders was almost arrested by police. During the second day of the DNC, protesters marched to the Chicago Police Department Headquarters, to retaliate against the arrests from the previous day. Although there were rumors of threatened violence, mainly the burning of the CPD building, the protester stayed peaceful. The protesters were met at the headquarters by a large group of police that arrested and beat many of the participantes. A majority of the protesters involved in the altercation were sent to the hospital to recover along with some reporters that had joined to cover the event but ended up with broken collar bones. On the third day protesters based their plan of action on the results of the DNCs Vietnam War policy vote, and because the delegates agreed to de-escalate the war, the protesters planned a peaceful march to the convention center. Allen Ginsberg, a well known pacifist organizer, had received a permit to be on the grounds of the Convention Center peacefully, and planned to levitate the center with a group of protesters positive energy emitted from their minds. This peaceful and lawful action resulted in the pacifist organizers along with prominent yippie leaders being arrested. In jail many of the protesters called for violence to retaliate against the police and Mayor Daleys attacks on their First Amendment right to gather. The moment the protesters were released a riot was started and chaos erupted around the city's center. No successful arrests of the riot leaders were made, and many of the protesters who were involved fled the city so as to not get caught.
Although I did not support the riot in action, I understood the anger of the protest leaders who had been arrested, day after day, for peacefully protesting. Mayor Daley was right to enforce extreme measures during the riot as they contain and prevent the damage of property, but he should not have arrested or beaten protesters involved in peaceful actions.
Before my assignment, I had always been on the receiving end of protesters' actions as an officer. But during my time among the yippies, I was able to experience the life of a protester.The yippies and other members of organizations like the SDS are passionate about the anti-war movement. The protesters I met were willing to sacrifice many things, sometimes including their own lives, to spread anti-war messages. They believe in their efforts completely. Although I do not agree with the methods and absurdity that many protesters rely on, I have respect for their dedication. 
The protesters hold more power than politicians have believed up until this point. And if the organizers of the recent protests at the DNC had not fought over methods of actions and instead had unified, they would have had an even larger impact on the media and the convention itself. If protesters stay dedicated to their causes and organizations grow in size, and unify around a goal they will inflict change onto this country. When that time comes, I do not know whether the protesters will choose violent or peaceful methods of change. But I do know that the leaders of this country should be wary of the power these radicals hold, and be careful not to give them a cause over which to unify. 
?Bella Abzug
George Heinrichs
History 200
25 May 2021  
Final Thoughts On The 1968 Democratic Convention
I dont believe that gender played much of a role in this democratic convention, in terms of who was listened to. Though, perhaps if there were a larger demographic of women to judge by, we might have seen a clearer distinction - though that in itself, my being the sole woman, is cause enough for alarm. I believe that I am listened to, but only because I work hard to make sure I am. When I was a young lawyer, I began wearing my hats so that I would be taken seriously, and I still find it true that, as a woman, I must put in more effort to be seen and heard. I must never let myself be interrupted. I must be firm in my opinions. And this is a universal experience for women. If I were a man I wouldnt have to work so hard to make sure Im being acknowledged and respected. Especially being a nonviolent activist, I cant use a lot besides my words, so if no one will listen to me it makes for a tough situation. During this convention, I made three speeches. I believe that is the most out of any protester, however, I did not get an interview. I understand that people like Abbie Hoffman may draw more media attention with their radical ideas and actions, but that is not to say that my ideas and actions are not just as -if not more - important. I do understand we only had one reporter, but I would have liked to be interviewed. 
For delegates like Mayor Daley, I do not believe he showed any disparity in his treatment of male and female protesters, demonstrated by the fact that I was the only one who was hospitalized. However, I believe that this says more about Daleys tyranny than his feminism. My most striking experience during the convention was the delegate's frustrating discrepancy between their actions and their words. They claimed they were fighting for the rights of the people, stating time and time again that they were the peoples party, yet they went on to arrest their people and advocate for causes like infrastructure rather than civil rights. I am especially displeased with Mr. Ted Kennedy and his lack of promotion for racial equality. I had expected more from him. 
I believe that these decisions could have changed had more women been in the democratic party. I think that women, more than men, especially white men, can understand the urgency and need for civil rights and laws preventing racist actions. This is because, like Black people, women have also been a group robbed of equal rights and expression. These white men simply do not understand to what degree their privilege affects their careers and their lives. They have never been immediately judged or underestimated simply because of their gender or color. They command the police rather than fear them. Beyond that, I would still like to hear more talk about womens rights brought up in these conversations, though that wasnt the main concern of this democratic convention. 
As for potential leaders within the protesters, I think there were a few. There are people like Abbie Hoffman who possess a quality that just draws people towards them and their words - though, especially in the case of Hoffman, I wish people would resist. Hoffman is an unreliable leader for our protesters. I could not have him in charge for multiple reasons. First, I dont agree with his strategies and sentiments and I believe we would all be arrested, if not worse, if he were our leader. Secondly, I dont believe his loyalties lie in politics. He mentioned several times that he believes the entire government system is corrupt and needs to be dismantled. I believe it is counterproductive to work with someone like him, and that I should align myself with those more committed to making a change within the party itself. Unfortunately, both Bobby Seale and David Dellinger stayed rather quiet throughout our discussions (well - quiet compared to Hoffman and I, which is, admittedly, a rather low bar). While I agree with many of Dellingers opinions, especially those that he shared in his last speech about the democratic partys hypocrisy, he was much too willing to go along with Hoffmans radical plans. I wish Id had more protesters with me that were as devoted to nonviolence as I. I also agree with many of Seales ideals, especially as it relates to social justice, but, as a Black Panther, he was also willing to make our message heard by any means necessary. I find it unnecessary to touch on undercover cop Bob Lavine, as he did nothing more than get us arrested and hospitalized. 
To conclude, though there was no obvious disparity between the treatment of women and men (though, again, hard to tell as I was the only test) I think the democratic party as a whole would have benefited from having more women involved in their party. I believe the entire world would benefit from more involvement from women. I had an interesting time navigating working with Abbie Hoffman, though I didnt have much of a choice as we both emerged as natural leaders of the group, with rather opposing opinions. All in all, I stand by my theory that our protesting party would have been better off if wed continued with more non-violent techniques like speeches and marches. Though this convention definitely did not go as I had planned in terms of police violence and hospitalizations, I am pleased we are on a path to withdraw from Vietnam. Though I wish for complete de-escalation, this was more than I expected from our delegates.  ?On the Convention of Death and the Nature of Life- Abbie Hoffman, 1968
And so the curtains draw to a close on the 1968 Convention of Death. George McGovern emerges victorious, having secured the coveted title of losing presidential candidate. The question Im getting asked now, after the events of the convention, is whether I would consider it a success. Whether or not Im happy with the way things turned out. Its a strange question to ask me, I think. Its impossible for me to say that I am happy with the Convention, because it is an instrument of the very system the Yippie party opposes. What could possibly happen at the convention itself that the Yippies might consider successful? If the delegates suddenly took off all their clothes, cannibalized each other, then detonated the amphitheater, then maybe Id be happy. Maybe then I would call the event a success. As things are though, I cant. Although watching Humphrey face a third humiliating defeat did inspire some glee in my heart, I didnt come to Chicago looking for success in the results of the convention. None of the Yippies did.
I want to end the war, I want freedom and equal treatment for Black Amerikans, I want liberation for all people. Im just not stupid enough to try to achieve these goals by screaming them at politicians who dont care what I have to say. You can read a pig Marx, but it doesnt stop him from stealing all the slop. Pigs will be pigs. You can picket and protest and march all you want, but it wont make the men in power change the fundamental systems that put them there. Change has to come from among the people, from outside the very government that oppresses us. Thats what a lot of people dont understand, even my fellow radicals. Even once a person has come to understand the great social injustices committed by the United States, they still may earnestly believe that that same country can rectify its mistakes. Its this great faith in the pig systems that prevents us from actualizing a revolution. We cannot dismantle our oppression without also dismantling the system that creates it.
Any message of sympathy from the mouth of a murderer is fraudulent. The truth is, the only way our government will tolerate protestors is if it is not afraid of them. And nothing is quite as unintimidating as a bunch of well-mannered people politely asking politicians to consider ending the slaughter in Vietnam. The fact that the pigs do not see protestors as an actual threat to their power and corruption is never to be celebrated as a victory. Those who the pigs do not spend time silencing are generally not saying anything worthwhile in the first place. When the pigs are angry with me, thats when I know Ive succeeded. When Mayor Daley throws a temper tantrum over my mere presence, when he sends his militant police force to beat me up for speaking my mind, thats when I know Ive done my service to the revolution. One of my heroes, Lenny Bruce, was arrested and banned from almost every club on the map for his routines. But when the government goes that far to make sure no one hears your voice, people will begin to wonder what youre saying. People will come to see your shows or watch your demonstrations, and thats what matters.
What I want, above all else, is people looking at me. So I do whatever it takes. I throw money on the New York Stock Exchange, I attempt to levitate the pentagon, I dress up in a prison uniform and chain myself to a post. Because people will look at that. No one wants to look at a protest of respectable people making reasonable demands of their so-called representatives. For the average Amerikan, there is not much difference between self-proclaimed respectable protestors and politicians themselves. Bottom line is, theyre both a snooze. And you can call me a lot of things, but a snooze is not one of them. I believe firmly that protests should not mimic the systems they claim to oppose. A protest should be everything our government is not. A protest should be exciting, a protest should be accessible, a protest should be living and breathing. In Country Joe and The Fishs famous Fish Cheer, they sing Whoopee! Were all
gonna die! Thats what Im all about. If the government insists on being sterile and boring, the revolution must be comical and absurd.
Some people call that opportunism. They say people like me have no real interest in a revolution, or in the liberation of the people. Were just in it for the dope or the music or the fucking, and if we get to burn down a few buildings or smash a few windows thats groovy too. It is true that the appropriation of a revolutionary lifestyle is meaningless without revolutionary philosophies. But a revolutionary consciousness without revolutionary life is equally meaningless. Life in itself is what this country hates the most, so much so that simply existing the way I want to is seen as an act of rebellion. This nation is hell-bent on commodifying the bodies of every man within its borders, on turning people into machines meant only to serve the wealthy and powerful. I live in opposition to this system because I care for my brothers and sisters more than I do for the evil powers that oppress us. Continuing to live as a slave to the Pig Empire is not revolutionary; the revolution is instead contingent on freeing ourselves from learned obedience.
Such a feat is difficult, as we have spent our whole lives training to serve the corrupt imperial USA. The Amerikan government wants to be the father of its people. It raises us to be good little boys and girls who take orders without question, who will always do their daddys dirty work when asked. We the radicals are treated like any rebellious children would be. The government attempts to convince us that our demands are unrealistic and childish. Our concerns are dismissed. We are told not to worry. Our pleas go unanswered. But when we become too disobedient, the Pig Empire cracks its whip. It beats and kills us, and it tells us thats what happens when we question it. Our bloodied bodies are broadcast on television screens to the rest of the children of Amerika. We are a warning of what happens if they step too far out of line.
Eventually though, all children realize their father is a liar. This time is coming for the Amerikan people. These past years of blatant secrecy and manipulation by our government have sparked a mass awakening among the youth. They have realized that the control the Amerikan government claims to exercise over its children is a construct. And when the people cease to believe in imagined power, that power ceases to exist.
In order to achieve such enlightenment, it is absolutely imperative that we disregard any metric of success imposed upon us by Pig systems. If we continue to internalize any of their messaging, we are unable to effectively dismantle their rule. Convincing my fellow protestors of this fundamental truth was the main difficulty I encountered in Chicago. On the second day of the Convention of Death, I was talking to a group of protestors about a sit-in. One of them, Bella Abzug, said to me I cant involve myself in that. She launched into a spiel about how we must not alienate the governmentabout how no one will respect us if we look like lunatics. What I told her, and what I will tell anyone who insists on clinging to the validation or acknowledgment of politicians, is that it is unimportant whether the pigs hold me or any other revolutionary in high esteem. I will take lunacy over surrender any day. I will never compromise my values to better meet the wants and needs of the pigs. I will never attempt to appease them. Because no matter how much we water down our beliefs to make them palatable, no matter how much we mutilate ourselves to look like model citizens, no form of success can ever come from cozying up to our oppressors.?When I read poetry, all of the words seem to form a picture in my mind, and I start to create a world in my imagination of what the poet is describing. Every word is like a pixel in the image in my mind, and sometimes, it changes the more I read. Although, you have to be very careful, because what you could be imagining might not have been what the author was imagining. To truly understand the meaning of a poem, you must understand elements of the authors life, and sometimes if you look close, you can start to see elements of the authors life written in the poem. These are usually in the form of a metaphor or allegory though. Something very interesting about poetry is that you see the world in a new perspective. This is because poetry is empathy. As you step into the shoes of the author while reading their poetry, you start to see the world as they pictured it, and you start to feel what they felt. This, to me, is why poetry is so powerful.?Alex Pichler
Professor Brian Crawford
E200 American Lit.
12 May 2021
Sneaking a Cookie out of the Cookie Jar:
The Consequences of Pursuing Instant Gratification
It is the nature of desire not to be satisfied, and most men live only for the gratification of it. - Aristotle. Gratification, as Aristotle mentioned, is what most people live for, but what Aristotle didnt mention is the difference between instant gratification and delayed gratification. Instant gratification begins with the desire for something tangible, in other words, an earthly desire, that someone wants promptly gratified. For example, someone might have the earthly desire for a cookie, and if they were to pursue instant gratification, they would choose to eat a cookie in that moment to attain immediate satisfaction. However, if this person were to choose to not eat the cookie because they had the intangible desire to be healthy, or in other words, the spiritual desire to be healthy, this would be a form of delayed gratification because the outcome of being healthier is delayed in contrast to the immediate satisfaction of eating the cookie. The decision to not eat the cookie can also be seen as holding a desire in abeyance, in the sense that this person had the self control not to eat the cookie because they knew of the consequences that it would bring. Throughout The Crucible, by Arthur Miller, and The Scarlet Letter, by Nathaniel Hawthorne, we observe the tension between instant and delayed desires, and how they connect to instant and delayed gratification. In both stories, earthly desires are depicted as a form of instant gratification and spiritual desires are depicted as a form of delayed gratification. As we scrutinize some of the characters such as Proctor, Dimmesdale, Hester, Chillingworth, and Parris, we observe patterns between their behavior, and how they are punished. One thing that these characters all have in common is that each of them lacks the self control needed to hold their desires in abeyance, and each chooses to pursue instant gratification to attain immediate satisfaction. From how these characters are punished, the lesson we can learn is that delayed gratification leads to success and reward, while instant gratification leads to failure and consequences.
From the beginning of The Crucible, we learn that Proctor has committed adultery with Abigail. In Christian theology, temptations of the flesh are earthly desires that appeal to carnal and physical appetites which should not to be satisfied. We can observe how the Bible describes temptations of the flesh as desires not to be gratified in Galatians 5:16. Indeed, So I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh(Galatians 5:16). Here, the bible says that if you walk by the spirit, you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. Proctors action of succumbing to a desire of the flesh categorizes his affair as instant gratification because he put aside his spiritual desire to satisfy his earthly desire. Throughout the rest of The Crucible, the consequences of his behavior unfolds. First, Proctor feels guilty during his conversation with Elizabeth, for [he] may blush for [his] sin (Miller 58). Here, the word blush refers to Proctors shame. If Proctor didnt feel guilty for his sin, he wouldnt have said that he blushes for his sin at all. We can further see Proctor's internal shame when Elizabeth mentions that The magistrate sits in [Proctors] heart that judges [him] (Miller 52). Here, the magistrate refers to Proctors guilt. Also, when Elizabeth mentions that his guilt sits on his heart judging him, this phrase refers to his guilt causing him internal suffering, a consequence of committing adultery. Something similar to this is in The Scarlet Letter when Dimmesdale internally tortures himself to repent for his sin. This establishes that internal guilt is a consequence of instant gratification. We can also observe how Proctors sin inadvertently causes the Salem witch trials during his conversation with Abigail when Abigail mentions I used to weep for my sins when the wind lifted up my skirts; and blushed for shame because some old Rebecca called me loose. And then you burned my ignorance away (Miller 141). Here, when Abigail mentions that Proctor burned [her] ignorance away, she refers to her affair with Proctor opening her eyes. After Proctor and Abigails affair, everything seemed to take a turn for the worse. Their affair led to Abigail losing her ignorance, which led her to start dancing in the forest with the other girls, which then led to accusations of witchcraft. Therefore, if John Proctor had never committed adultery, the witch trials in The Crucible may never have transpired. Proctors internal shame and the Salem witch trials are consequences (and in a way punishment) for Proctors earthly desire for Abigail's love and his pursuit for the instant gratification of their affair.
In The Crucible, Parris longs for authority and has the earthly desire for power. This desire leads the townspeople to dislike him. The towns dislike appears when the narrator mentions that [Parris] believed he was being persecuted wherever he went, despite his best efforts to win people and God to his side (Hawthorne 3). Here, when the narrator mentions that [Parris] believed he was being persecuted wherever he went, the word persecute refers to the town's dislike of Parris. Furthermore, the use of the phrase wherever he went implies that everybody in the town disliked him. Parris also appears as a villain when the narrator explicitly mentions that [Parris] cut a villainous path, and there is very little good to be said of him (Hawthorne 3). Additionally, when Hale asks Proctor why his third son wasnt baptized, Proctor replies that I like it not that Mr. Parris should lay his hand upon my baby. I see no light of God in that man. Ill not conceal it (Hawthorne 62). Here, Proctor shares with Reverend Hale his dislike for Parris. In the play, Proctor is esteemed, so it makes sense that the rest of the town should share a dislike for Parris with Proctor. From how Parris is disliked by the townspeople for his desire for power, instant gratification is frowned upon and depicted as unholy.
Even from the beginning of The Scarlet Letter, Hester is externally shamed by the townspeople. Indeed, [Hester] has brought shame upon us all, and ought to die. Is there not law for it? Truly there is, both in the Scripture and the statute-book (Hawthorne 49). Here, the townspeople are disappointed in Hester when they mention that she has brought shame upon us all, implying that Hesters behavior somehow had an effect on them. Furthermore, they despise Hester when they mention that she ought to die, implying that Hesters punitive scarlet letter isnt severe enough. The external shame and alienation Hester faces is a consequence of pursuing instant gratification. Dimmesdale on the other hand deals with extreme internal shame. Indeed, While thus suffering under bodily disease, and gnawed and tortured by some black trouble of the soul [] Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale had achieved a brilliant popularity in his sacred office (Hawthorne 123). Here, the black trouble of the soul refers to Dimmesdales internal guilt and suffering. The phrase gnawed and tortured by some black trouble of the soul refers to Dimmesdale being haunted by his guilt. Also, Dimmesdale is once again tempted by earthly desire (the first time being his sin of adultery) after his encounter with Hester in the forest. Indeed, Tempted by a dream of happiness, he had yielded himself with deliberate choice, as he had never done before, to what he knew was deadly sin (Hawthorne 152). Here, Dimmesdale being tempted by the dream of happiness refers to Dimmesdales desire to attain happiness with Hester. When the text mentions that Dimmesdale had yielded himself with deliberate choice [] to what he knew was deadly sin, this portion of the quote shows how Dimmesdales earthly desire leads him to deadly sin. Similar to Proctor, Hester and Dimmesdales affair is a desire of the flesh because they both succumbed to their carnal appetites. Their pursuit for desires of the flesh are forms of instant gratification because they focused on earthly desires instead of spiritual desires. Indeed, Those who live according to the flesh have their minds set on what the flesh desires; but those who live in accordance with the Spirit have their minds set on what the Spirit desires(Romans 8:5). If Hester and Dimmesdale would have focused on what their spirits desired instead of what their flesh desired, they probably wouldnt have committed adultery. From how Hester and Dimmesdales behavior is punished by the townspeople, and from the shame they face, instant gratification is something reprehensible and frowned upon. 
In The Scarlet Letter, Chillingworth appears during Hesters pillory. As Hesters  husband, and after discovering that she committed adultery, Chillingworth develops a pure hatred for his adversary (Hesters fellow adulterer). After his meeting with Hester in the prison, he then makes it his mission to ascertain Hesters fellow adulterer and to punish him. Chillingworths desire for revenge is a form of instant gratification because, instead of choosing to suppress his desire for revenge, he pursues it to attain instant satisfaction. As Chillingworth continues to be swallowed by his thirst for revenge, he becomes perpetually dependent on punishing Dimmesdale without clemency. Indeed, the narrator limpidly mentions that as [Chillingworth] proceeded, a terrible fascination, a kind of fierce, though still calm, necessity seized the old man within its gripe, and never set him free again, until he had done all its bidding. He now dug into the poor clergymans heart, like a miner searching for gold (Hawthorne 113). Here, when the text mentions that a necessity seized the old man within its gripe, and never set him free again, this refers to how Chillingworths fascination with internally torturing Dimmesdale turned into a necessity. Furthermore, the text using the metaphor searching for gold further shows the level of obsession that Chillingworth has with Dimmesdales internal guilt. We can see how dependent Chillingworth is on Dimmesdales guilt after Dimmesdale dies on the pillory. Indeed, Nothing was more remarkable than the change which took place, almost immediately after Mr. Dimmesdales demise, in the appearance and demeanour of the old man known as Roger Chillingworth. All his strength and energy--all his vital and intellectual force--seemed at once to desert him; insomuch that he positively withered up, shrivelled away, and almost vanished from mortal sight, like an uprooted wee that lies wilting in the sun (Hawthorne 224). Here, the fact that Chillingworth withered up after Dimmesdales demise further shows how dependent Chillingworth became on Dimmesdales guilt. Also, the metaphor that Chillingworth became an uprooted wee that lies wilting in the sun also shows this, because, similarly to how a plant feeds off water, Chillingworth fed off of Dimmesdales guilt and depended on it. After Chillingworths water was taken away from him, he eventually wilted in the sun. From how Chillingworth was eaten alive by his desire for revenge, instant gratification appears as an evil which destroys one's inner self.
	Even though these stories take place in the 17th century, we can still apply the lessons we learn to 2021. Delayed gratification is affiliated with hard work, in the sense that delayed gratification often requires hard work. Whether it is spending countless hours on an essay for English class, or training for a sports competition, hard work always pays off. Furthermore, instant gratification connects to careless work. For example, a surgeon in the operating room could be in a rush to get home and might accidentally make a careless mistake removing the wrong organ, resulting in severe problems for the patient. In the modern world, the lesson we can learn from The Crucible and The Scarlet Letter is that hard work pays off with reward, while careless work is paid for with punishment. This is because, after all, if you believe in yourself and work hard enough, anything is possible.
Works Cited:
Bible Gateway Passage: Galatians 5:16 - New International Version. Bible Gateway, www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Galatians+5%3A16&version=NIV.
Bible Gateway Passage: Romans 8:5 - New International Version. Bible Gateway, www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Romans+8%3A5&version=NIV. 
It Is the Nature of Desire Not to Be Satisfied, and Most Men Live Only for the Gratification of It. Quotes, www.quotes.net/quote/1875. ?Brief: Plessy vs. Ferguson
Table of Contents
Brief: Plessy vs. Ferguson	1
Table of Contents	1
Interest of Amici Curiae	1
Facts of the Plessy v. Ferguson Case	1
Issue of the Matter	1
Novel Argument	2
Works Cited	3
Interest of Amici Curiae
	The Amici is the Central Rail and Bus Company. The Amici wishes to establish non-segregated transportation units in efforts to both uphold the constitutionally-guaranteed rights of its customers and also to promote the efficient transport of all persons in addition to public and private goods.
Facts of the Plessy v. Ferguson Case
In 1890, The "Separate Car Act" was passed in the state of Louisiana. This law required separate railway cars for black and white train passengers. Citizens from New Orleans formed a coalition called the Committee of Citizens in order to combat the Separate Car Act, and to have it be repealed by the courts. The Committee of Citizens persuaded Homer Plessy--a man with some African American ancestry, therefore being considered as black by the state of Louisana--to violate the law for the purpose of getting arrested so that the Committee might achieve their goals through a court case.
Esteemed Professor G. Heinrichs of the Downtown University once said, You cant petition to change a law unless someone gets harmed by it, this is the case with the Seperate Car Act, and Homer Plessy. On June 7, 1892, Homer Plessy boarded a "whites only" car in New Orleans and refused to leave when asked to move to the blacks-only car. Thereafter, Plessy was arrested.
Additionally, The railroad company was opposed to the Louisana state requirement of separate cars due to the increased costs for additional railcars.
Issue of the Matter
The case of Plessy v. Ferguson is a quandary of the 14th Amendment. The notion of separate but equal, as seen in the separation, yet inherit inequality, of train cars, violates this very amendment. Above all else, this case is a quintessential example of the oppression of liberty. The founding fathers, in 1776, did not being the journey to bring liberty to all Americans--both the grand liberty of freedom from oppression, to the mere liberty of choosing in what train car to sit--in order for liberty to be chopped up and split in half: Americans with liberty, and Americans without. The case of Plessy v. Ferguson needs to be an example of this dream of liberty, equal liberty, for all Americans, regardless of where their ancestors may hail.
Novel Argument
	The Supreme Court should rule in the favor of Plessy, acquitting the accused of violation of an unconstitutional law. This is because the Seperate Car Act of 1890 directly violates section one, clause two of the fourteenth amendment. No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; First, establishing that the Seperate Car Act was established twenty years after the fourteenth amendment of 1868, it can be considered both a law made and enforced. And, this legislation directly abridged the privileges and immunities of Homer Plessy, a citizen of the United States, when he tried to ride a train car that was exclusive to a certain race.
It is the specific forcing of separation based upon race that is unconstituional. According the clause two of the first section of the fourteenth amendment, [No] state deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. As can be seen, the fourteenth amendment guarantees equal protection of life and liberty to any person. Thus, the forced segregation of train cars, removes the liberty of choice, and also the liberty of comfort, given that the segregated cars are not truly equal.
The Seperate Car Act requires such an equality, [...] to provide equal but separate accommodations for the white and colored races, by providing separate coaches or compartments so as to secure separate accommodations, Regardless of the inherit inequality of two distinct train cars, the also declares that the railroad company shall be allowed to define punishment for any person who might sit in a location that is not deemed appropriate based on their race. Defining the duties of the officers of such railways; directing them to assign passengers to the coaches or compartments set aside for the use of the race to which such passengers belong; authorizing them to refuse to carry on their train such passengers as may refuse to occupy the coaches or compartment to which he or she is assigned; to exonerate such railway companies from any and all blame or damages that might proceed or result from such a refusal; to prescribe penalties for all violations of this act.
The two main culprits of unconstitutionality of this act are its requirement of separation in the first place, and its deprivation of liberty without the process of the law--based on the fact that the railway officers and railway companies shall be the judge and jury of the race of the passenger.
To begin with the latter, the officer of the railway or the railway company, as permitted in the act, may decide, to prescribe penalties for all violations of [the] act. The punishment given to Plessy by the railway company was to deprive him of his liberties, upon the discretion of the Louisiana Separate Car Act without due process of law. This lack of due process is not the only way in which the Separate Car Act is unconstitutional, the very basis of this act, as denoted in its name, requiring the separation of persons based upon race, is unconstitutional according to the Civil Rights Act of 1875. The Civil Rights Act protect[s] all citizens in their civil and legal rights. These rights are equal treatment in accommodations and transportation. In full, The Civil Rights Act states that, All persons within the jurisdiction of the United States shall be entitled to the full and equal enjoyment of the accomodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges of inns, public conveyances on land or water, theaters, and other places of publie amusement; subject only to the conditions and limitations established by law, and applicable alike to citizens of every race and color, regardless of any previous condition of servitude. The requirement of seperation by the Separate Car Act is unequal treatment based upon race, and therefore, is unconstitutional.
	
Works Cited
Schnapper-Casteras, William Seidleck and JP. Top 10 Ways to "Friend" SCOTUS. 20 Feb. 2019, www.scotusblog.com/2018/08/top-10-ways-to-friend-scotus/.
Plessy v. Ferguson. Encyclopdia Britannica, Encyclopdia Britannica, Inc., www.britannica.com/event/Plessy-v-Ferguson-1896.
Urofsky, Melvin I.. "Civil Rights Act of 1875". Encyclopedia Britannica, 22 Feb. 2021, https://www.britannica.com/topic/Civil-Rights-Act-United-States-1875. Accessed 4 March 2021.
U.S. Constitution. Amend. XIV.
La. Seperate Car Act (1890).
Civil Rights Act of 1875.
The Civil Rights Cases. 163 US 537 (1896).?Assignment 3: Commentary
After the convention ends, you must write a second piece summing up your thoughts on the convention as a whole. Write down your impressions and then rearrange them as a cut-up. Alternatively, write a piece that turns the Chicago Convention into a psychedelic phantasmagoria. 
When you submit your final story to the GM, you should also submit the author and title of two other pieces of journalism that you found especially compelling. You cannot vote for yourself. These nominations will determine the winners of the Pulitzer Prize.
?Requirements
After the convention ends, determine how likely it is for you to achieve your objectives. Then write a 3-5 page essay explaining the degree to which your actions and those of others shaped this probable outcome. Will the party come together behind its chosen candidate?
?Prevent Withdrawal or Victory from becoming the party plank on Vietnam
?Select the presidential nominee on the first ballot
?No one stages a walkout from the convention
?No protesters are hospitalized as a result of police action
?Democrats maintain control of the White House in November 
?A majority of mainstream journalists praise your handling of the convention in their final stories, which are filed after the convention ends
Carl Albert
Chair of Democratic Party
A Retrospective Look upon The Convention
	On the first morning of the convention, I opened with a change of plans. However, fortunately, this change of plans would not foreshadow any mercuriousness within the convention. Instead of the pledge of allegiance, I played the national anthem. Aside from this wavering from the plan, the first day of the convention went smoothly. The delegates had plenty of material prepared for the first morning, so I was able to sit back and let them project their ideas to the public with little moderation and involvement from my end. Given the fact that this was the opening day of the convention, I wanted to take the bus drivers seat in the bus that is the 1968 democratic convention. I wanted to steer the bus where it needed to go, but not stand up and bother the passengers while the bus was moving.
	With the beginning speeches aside, on the first day of debate, the delegates and I discussed domestic policies. I was hoping for a majority agreement on the domestic portion of the platform. Agreement and swift platforming in this stage would allow us to spend more time deciding on our platform for the most divisive issue, Vietnam. Decisive platforming would allow me and the delegates to select our nominee on the very first ballot. The delegates and I were able to come to a unanimous agreement upon the domestic platform. We proposed funding for physical infrastructure, and societal infrastructure--that is the war on poverty and the extension of the food stamp program. In regards to civil rights, a pressing and divisive issue--especially for myself, the delegates appeared rather inanimate and self-removed from the whole situation. Mayor R.  Daley claimed that federal legislation was sufficient as-is, and the states could manage civil rights, with the government only stepping in when it was needed. It seemed to me that the government was needed, and it was exactly our job to provide such a plan and nominee to execute upon it. The delegates were in agreement. So, while an absence of change was not particularly to my wishes, in the interest of party unison, I agreed to abstain from voting for the development of new civil rights legislation in our platform. Surprisingly, I anticipated civil rights to be a more major point of discord between the delegates in regards to our domestic platform, even perhaps cause for a walkout on someones behalf. Additionally, in regards to criminal justice, we sought to increase funding for the FBI, and to Mayor Daleys approval, funding for the police. And, we also wanted to provide support for criminal rehabilitation. Luckily, however, there were no walkouts, and the domestic platform was decided upon in unison. Finally, ending the first day, there was some protesting activity, however, there were no hospitalizations. I believe that young folks have a right to express their opinions, but I need them to not interfere with the democratic process. Mayor Daley expressed his idea that the protesters were merely walking about and not saying, really anything at all.
	The second day of the convention was lingering in my mind even before it had begun. After starting with the proper agenda, the pledge of allegiance this time, I had one idea in mind: what were we going to do about the war. The matter of foreign policy of Vietnam was, to my anticipation and in reality, the most split issue that needed to be decided for the platform. In combination with the day priors complaints that our stances on domestic policy were bland and uninteresting, for the purpose of movement and direction with the platform, the delegates suggested we avoid a mundane stance on Vietnam, and that radical action was required. This repulsion to mild-mannered policy, as phrased by some of the protestors, was bound to cause increased division amongst the delegates, especially on the already divisive issue of the war. Mr. J. Connally, and, to some extent, Mr. H. Humphery, were the main advocates of escalation against communism and extending the war to victory. Given that we restricted ourselves from taking little to no action in the war, their policies might not have been as drastic. However, the antiwar sentiment from Mr. T. Kennedy was going to be drastic and sweeping regardless of whether we were planning on making a mild decision or not. Kennedy moved for complete withdrawal initially, but in order to appeal to the equilibrium, moved for less extreme measures. Mayor Daley and I were driving forces in settling the two ends of thought from our delegates away from a push to victory or a recession into withdrawal. Eventually, despite the headcount of pro-war and anti-war persons suggesting that the final balance would lie favor of escalation, our platform landed upon de-escalation and reduction of troop numbers and the cessation of bombings about the 19th parallel. Ultimately the decision for de-escalation pleased me. A stark contrast between our democratic party and Nixon in regards to the war would help make a gray decision into black and white for the American voter. That afternoon, regretfully, intrusive moves from the protestors made it so that Mayor Daley needed to respond accordingly. In that response, one protestor, Bella Abzug, was hospitalized. As was said by the late Martin Luther King Jr., Returning violence for violence multiplies violence, adding deeper darkness to a night already devoid of stars... Hate cannot drive out hate: only love can do that. So, violence from the police cannot stop violence from the protestors. In response to the war and its violence overseas, our next generation here is responding in the like. This prompted the third aggression on behalf of the police force. Whether any of this violence is justified is immaterial to me, because, as chair of the democratic party, I can only hope to reduce this sentiment of violence and war by advocating for the platform of de-escalation in Vietnam. This settlement of peace would hopefully influence peace here at home. Upon the second day, our platform had been established. Once again, our domestic policies were unanimous, moderate reforms in all areas but civil rights, in which we abstained. In order to begin the de-escalation in Vietnam, we decided that we were going to remove fifty thousand troops in addition to, as aforementioned, stop bombing at nineteen north.
	On the third and final day, after having solidified our platform, it was time for the delegates and me to decide upon the nominee. Initially, I had been leaning toward Mr. Humphrey as the nominee. He was a popular candidate, and despite his initial pro-war position, I figured he could mold into a good representative for our platform. However, Mayor Daley was the first to point out this contradiction in policy. Mr. Humphrey tried to reassure us of his experience and aptness for the nomination, and that his initial stance on the war would not be an issue. However, in pursuit of his own goal of the position of vice president, Mr. Connally began to reaffirm that we needed a candidate that was anti-war to support the anti-war de-escalation platform from the beginning. Additionally, Connally noted that the nomination could please more people if he, having a pro-war stance, joined in with whichever anti-war presidential nominee was chosen. It would provide voters with a wide spectrum of ideas on Vietnam, suggesting to the voters that there would be someone in the White House that would listen to what any given voter would have to say. Mayor Daley proposed Mr. George McGovern due to his anti-war opinions and alignment with our platform with respect to infrastructure and criminal justice. This proposal was acceptable to Mr. Kennedy, and Mr. Connally. However, Mr. Humphrey still was adamant about his capacity to perform as the nominee. I agreed with Mayor Daley as well, in spite of the fact that Mr. Humphrey had done a great deal of campaigning and work in order to establish his position as a potential nominee in both the delegates eyes and the peoples eyes. Eventually, for the reason that McGovern would be a better match for our platform, Humphrey conceded and we rejoined to vote. All delegates unanimously voted for McGovern. I then made the mistake of suggesting to my fellow delegates that we begin the vote for the vice president, when Mayor Daley reminded me that McGovern would choose his vice president, even though a vote in absentia would make sense given that McGovern was not present. Regardless, John Connally determined himself to be the vice nominee and went to take the nomination acceptance speech. In the end, the delegates and I were pleased with the diversity between the stances of the nominees. We believed that McGovern and Connally would make strong candidates for the executive office. And, that is exactly what they did. Narrowly winning the election, the democrats maintained control of the White House this November. It is unlikely that Mr. William Burroughs of Esquire Magazine will have any outstanding remarks upon my actions as chairman. Nor is it likely that there will be any negative remarks. However, given that we maintained a spot in the White House, I believe that my actions as chairman and the work of my fellow delegates speak positively for themselves.
?My fellow Americans,
I am sure I need not tell you the weight of this moment after Bobby's recent death, especially considering Johns death 5 years ago. We are a nation in mourning, and we are hurt with invisible wounds, wounds that only time itself can heal. I need not tell you how influential, inspiring, and dedicated John and Bobby were, because these two men were more than that. These two men gave their lives to institute change in this country. They were ambitious, with true hearts, wanting the best for all american people. These two men were true Americans with a dream. They saw problems and tried to fix them, they saw violence and tried to make peace, and most importantly, they saw the potential of what America could become. John and Bobby dreamed of an America where all Americans are equal, where there is peace and prosperity throughout the whole country, where little poverty exists, and where songbirds could sing in the fresh morning air. They dreamed of a nation where people could accept one another, without judgment, and they had hope in the future of America. But America at this present moment is at the brink of division. There is inequality and violence in the streets, there is war in Vietnam, there is controversy in the whitehouse, and there is poverty throughout all of America. At this present time we shouldnt think to ourselves about the possibility that this nation might divide, but rather about the opportunity to unify and mend the nation back together. And the glue that will help bond this nation back together stronger than ever is civil rights and the sealant that will fill the crack is NOT a war in Vietnam, but a war against poverty. We cannot betray what John and Bobby died for, and what this nation has been fighting for ever since the first American Flag was raised. We cannot back down from the fight for civil rights for all Americans, and we will never give up until the war against poverty is won. We will together, as one nation, overcome any obstacles we are faced with and we can, and we will, together become the nation that John and Bobby dreamed of.
Thank you very much.?Alexandre Lipson
Brian Crawford
English 200
May 27, 2021
The Importance of Seeing for Yourself
	The keystone of the scientific method states that in order to test a hypothesis, one must test it with what one can observe. In order to prove a point or a hypothesis, you need evidence. However, evidence is not needed to merely make a point. While both making and proving a point are done in order to convince someone of something, the distinction between proving a point and making a point is that proving is backed by evidence or logos, while making a point can only be backed by ethos. Two books, set in the late 1600s in Salem, Massachusetts, provide insight into the effects of making points as opposed to proving them. Arthur Millers The Crucible describes a story about a town that is paranoid of witches and witchcraft. The town authorities believe the demise of all witches to be a panacea for witchcraft. The town judge executes upon this killing even when there is not only no evidence to support any crimes, but also evidence to contradict witchcraft having taken place. The townspeople of The Crucible yield to the ethos and influence of their authority figures and believe what they are told--that witchcraft is a serious and prevalent problem--instead of what they see--no witchcraft. Believing what someone says just because they are in a position of power is the appeal to authority fallacy. Eventually, the paranoia and the witch-hunting of witches caused the self-destruction of the entire town. Conversely, in Nathaniel Hawthornes The Scarlet Letter, the authority figures, such as the governor, make a statement regarding the punishment for a crime, but the townspeople do not listen to it. In this case, the governor decided to outcast Hester Prynne, who had committed adultery. However, the townspeople eventually disagree with their authority figures and see Hester as an able-bodied samaritan rather than a sinner. Instead of listening to just what they were told, the townspeople relied on what was evident to them in order to decide what to believe. Ultimately, Hester was able to find her way back into society. So, when the people of The Crucible listened to points made without evidence by their authorities, their town collapsed in on itself. Yet, when the people in The Scarlet Letter founded their ideas on evidence, they were able to reintegrate Hester into society. It is from these two books that we can see that when making a judgment or decision, one should pay attention to what is evident, and not just what is stated.
There is very little evidence of people committing witchcraft in The Crucible. The people of Salem do not get any valid evidence of witchcraft that proves the crimes took place. The only evidence that they do get is evidence planted by the creator of the witchcraft conspiracies, Abigail Williams. Firstly, when Abigail claimed that Elizabeth Proctor was committing witchcraft, the authorities, Marshall Ezekiel Cheever and Pastor John Hale, went to her house in order to meticulously find more--or in other words, fabricate--evidence to support Abigails claim. They located a puppet, an item that is affiliated with witchcraft. Specifically, puppets with needles in them are related to voodoo witchcraft originating from Louisiana and Haiti. Inside the puppet of interest, Marshall Cheever finds a needle. This needle intimates that Elizabeth had committed witchcraft only because of Abigails faked performance. Abigails faked performance occurred when she was sitting in the courtroom listing people she claimed to be witches
Cheever: Why - He draws out a long needle from the poppet - it is a needle! [...]
Proctor, angrily, bewildered: And what signifies a needle! [...] 
Cheever, wide-eyed, trembling: The girl, [Abigail Williams], sir. She sat to dinner in Reverend Parriss house tonight, and without word nor warnin she falls to the floor. Like a struck beast, he says, and screamed a scream that a bull would weep to hear. And he goes to save her, and, stuck two inches in the flesh of her belly, he draw a needle out. And demandin of her how she come to be so stabbed, she - to Proctor now - testify it - were your wifes familiar spirit pushed it in. 							(74) 
The puppet in Elizabeths possession had a needle in the same spot as where Abigail had been stabbed. However, Abigail was not in fact stabbed, but rather she feigned her injury. John Proctor, Elizabeth Proctor's husband, was present when the authorities came after Elizabeth, he inquired to Mary Warren about the origins of the doll.
	Proctor, quickly: [Mary Warren,] You stuck that needle in yourself?
Mary Warren: [...] I believe I did, sir [...] Let you ask Susanna Walcott - she saw me sewin it in court. Or better still: Ask Abby, Abby sat beside me when I made it.									(76)
When Abigail saw that Mary Warren was making a puppet and stabbed it with a needle, Abigail hatched a plan to pretend that the doll had some witchcraft ability to injure her, suggesting that Elizabeth Proctor, who would have the doll in her house, would have committed witchcraft. So, Abigail was able to forge evidence for accusations. While the doll is evident to the authorities, the legitimacy of the connection between the doll and witchcraft is not. The only evidence that exists is a false artifice designed to convict an innocent person of witchcraft. Second, Judge Danforth says that witchcraft is ipso facto--in Latin, by the very fact, meaning there are no witnesses; therefore, witchcraft cannot be evidenced as it cannot be seen. Danforth: [...] witchcraft is ipso facto, on its face and by its nature, an invisible crime, is it not? Therefore, who may possibly be a witness to it? (100). Since witchcraft is not evident, the townspeople cannot see that it took place. So, they have to rely on what they are told. Therefore, as an authority figure with ethos, Judge Danforth made the townspeople believe what he said, people are guilty, regardless if the town sees witchcraft or not.
Judge Danforth made a point that he is a powerful person to support his ethos, so the townspeople should believe in his decisions and what he says. For example, Francis Nurse claimed that he has evidence for Judge Danforth to see that exonerates his wife Rebecca Nurse. He pleaded for Judge Danforth to review it. However, Danforth wanted to protect his high reputation--he is even called your excellency (133). So, Danforth did not go back on his word of sentencing the townspeople to death because admitting he was wrong would damage his reputation and ethos.
Francis: Excellency, we have proof for your eyes; God forbid you shut them to it. The girls, sir, the girls are frauds. [...]
Danforth: Peace, Judge Hathorne. Do you know who I am, Mr. Nurse?
Francis: I surely do, sir, and I think you must be a wise judge to be what you are.
Danforth: And do you know that [nearly] four hundred are in the jails from Marblehead to Lynn, and upon my signature? [...] And seventy-two condemned to hang by that signature?					(87)
Judge Danforth suppressed the evidence brought before him. He said his decisions are what the town should believe, even when there was evidence--in the form of a confession from Mary Warren that she and Abigail were lying about her accusations of witchcraft--mounted against Danforths previous decisions. Even though there was no evidence for witchcraft--and, in fact, evidence for the contrary, because Judge Danforth was in a position of authority, he declared that the townspeople should consider his ruling as being the truth. Danforths insidious ruling that witchcraft took place and that those who he had sentenced are guilty ultimately causes the self-destruction of the town. So, because the townspeople in The Crucible believed what they were told and not what they saw, the town suffered.
	In regards to ruling authorities, the Puritan authorities in The Scarlet Letter decided Hesters punishment for her crime of adultery and how the town should treat her. Governor Bellingham decided that Hester would be banished to a cabin in the woods and be forced to wear a scarlet letter A on her chest to remind people that she committed adultery. This decision was made as opposed to sentencing Hester to death in accordance with the Bible. In response to Governor Bellinghams decision, a townsperson said, This woman has brought shame upon us all, and ought to die; Is there not law for it? Truly there is, both in the Scripture and the statute book." (79). The Scripture, meaning the Bible, is a primary text that states the appropriate and inclement punishment for adultery. The townsperson believes that Hesters punishment should be augmented from banishment to death because of the evidence from an important book in Puritan society, the Bible. So, Governor Bellingham abandoned the rules in order to make a point that Hester would merely be banished. In addition, another example of the abandonment of evidence was when Reverend Dimmesdale became physically ill from his guilt of having committed adultery without telling anyone. Dimmesdale was given aid by Roger Chillingworth, Hesters former husband. Chillingworth suspected that Dimmesdale was the one who committed adultery with his former wife. Chillingworths entire goal was to make Dimmesdale suffer as revenge. A description of Chillingworths character indicates that, Calm, gentle, passionless, as [Roger Chillingworth] appeared, there was yet, we fear, a quiet depth of malice, hitherto latent, but active now, in this unfortunate old man, which led him to imagine a more intimate revenge than any mortal had ever wreaked upon an enemy. (209). Chillingworth made a point that was contrary to the Bible and Puritan beliefs that say that it is Gods job to judge people.Chillingworth claimed responsibility for judging Dimmesdale for his sins. The townspeople allow Dimmesdale to continue to suffer because they do not know the real reason for why he is sick; his guilt is not evident, so the townspeople cannot influence his fate from Chillingworth. So, authority figures, such as Governor Bellingham and Doctor Roger Chillingworth, oppose the religious rule evidenced in the Bible and make decisions that are based on what they want to say instead.
	Despite the Governers point that Hester should be banished, the townsfolk change their mind from alienating her to appreciating her work. We can see Hesters pathway to redemption via her making clothes for everyone in the town. After being cast out from the Puritan community, Hester was only able to return to the society because of the need for her garment craftsmanship abilities. While previously she had no purpose, she gained purpose by helping, wretches less miserable than herself, (75). The author, describing Hesters reconnection with the community, said, From the delicate toil of the needle. [...] In this manner, Hester Prynne came to have a part to perform in the world.  (76). This represents the next step in Hesters journey, her return to society shifts how she is viewed. While she cannot make wedding dresses, as her crime related to marriage still stings Hester too pungently to stain the pureness of a wedding dress (77), the majority of the town allowed her to move forward. However, this process of forgiving is not entirely complete yet, as those that Hester helped not infrequently insulted the hand that fed them. (75). The townspeople had the clothes as evidence that Hester is producing for the town, and they began to realize that she could be forgiven of her sins. After some time, a meteor appeared in the sky that made the shape of a red letter A in the sky. All the townspeople could see this phenomenon, and they interpreted it as more evidence for a change in the meaning of Hesters red letter, from adulterer to able. Looking upward to the zenith, beheld there the appearance of an immense letterthe letter Amarked out in lines of dull red light. Not but the meteor may have shown itself at that point, burning duskily through a veil of cloud. (234). The red letter A, coming from sky, was evidence to the people that Hester was like an able-bodied angel. The fact that the townspeople used what they saw in Hesters deeds and the Earths sky in order to decide the judgment of Hester, as opposed to just listening to Governor Bellingham allowed them to come to a more informed decision. Overall, using evidence led to a redressal of Hesters status in society. Her reincorporation was a better outcome than being sentenced to exile or death because it was backed by evidence.
Socrates once said, To Believe without evidence and demonstration is an act of ignorance and folly. We can see from all this, to avoid ignorance and folly, it is crucial to pay attention to what is evident prior to making a decision or a judgment. In the context of highschool in 2021, people, especially teenagers with developing brains, make mistakes. When a mistake is made, it is important to look at the intent as opposed to the impact. A persons intent cannot be seen when they make a decision. In this case, when a mistake is made, one must ascertain the intent behind a mistake in order to properly deal with it. For example, if a classmate is discussing work they did on an assignment, in order to support them assuage of any worries about their grade, one might suggest to their classmate that the classmates work is good and that the classmate is bound to receive a good grade. The intent in this situation is to calm the classmate. However, sometimes the classmate might see the esteem of their work as being insincere, rather than as being supportive. The burden of removing confusion lies upon the benefactor, to reiterate that their intent was unfeigned. Similarly, in The Crucible, If someone had stopped to verify Abigails claims, to see if anyone was actually committing malevolent witchcraft, the town could have avoided the cascade of punitive measures and death that resulted from the town listening to authority and witnessing evidence of witchcraft themselves. However, the townspeople of The Scarlet Letter took the time to evaluate Hesters mistake in order to reach a constructive solution such as the reintegration of Hester into society. Therefore, in order to reach an informed decision one should make sure that they can see the entire picture, especially if there exists a discrepancy between what is said and can be seen. However, it is very difficult to see all the evidence in every situation. A primary example of this is the interaction between a people and their government. Their government may, like the United States government, have some classified information which the people cannot see. In circumstances such as these, where one cannot see what is evident, is it acceptable to rely merely on what is said?
?Tema: Los desafos culturales y de identidad que enfrentan los latinoamericanos en EEUU.
Cuentas de Inmigrantes en Cancines
Luca Millard-Kish
El arte de los ciudadanos Mxico Americanos, en el forma de cancines, puede refleja los sentimiento complicados sobre se identidad. Personas diferentes se sienten diferente sobre su mezcla de dos culturas; algunos sienten atrapado, algunos sienten orgulloso. Es dudosa que todas las inmigrantes sientan el mismo. Este ensayo breve voy a enfocar en tres cancines diferentes que nos muestran estos sentimientos complicados. 
Primero, en la cancin La Juala De Oro, por Los Tigres del Notes, la letra dice [...] si estoy como prisionero, dentro desta gran nacin, cuando me acuerdo hasta lloro, aunque la juala sea de oro, no deja de ser prisin. Para estas artistas, el gran nacin de America es como una juala. Ellos sienten atrapado. Pero, el juala es hecho de oro. Este yuxtaposicin entre el parte con dolor, el juala, y el parte dichoso, el oro, muestra el conflicto emocional de los ciudadanos Mxico Americanos. La siguente ejemplo tiene un sentimiento muy differente. En la cancin Mxico Americano, de Los Lobos, las artistas toman orgullo en la mezcla de races. Cuando dicen, Por mi madre yo soy Mexicano, Por destino soy Americano, Yo soy de la raza de oro. Yo soy Mxico Americano, ellos comentan en la parte de la mezcla que los hicen especial. Por ltimo, nosotros podemos ver la dualidad de los sentimientos y los sentimientos en conflicto. La cancin Por Si Acaso No Regreso, por Celia Cruz, ella dice Y siempre me sent dichosa, de haber nacido entre tus brazos. Y aunque ya no est, de me corazn te dejo un pedazo [...] Podemos ver que aunque ella has tenido una carrera exitosa, ella todava extra su pas de hogar, Cuba, durante el proceso de escribiendo este cancin. Ella senta nostlgica.
	En conclusin, cuando nosotros vemos este fenmeno de expresin y narracin con las cancines, podemos apreciar y entender ms mejor los sentimientos de las personas Mxico Americanas. A mi me gustas este forma de expresin porque me encanta msica. Aunque los voces de ellos hay usualmente suprimido, ellos nos pueden compartir sus realidades con msica. De las tres cancines, podemos ver que la sentimientos diferentes y conflictivos de los inmigrantes, una perspectiva nueva para algunos. Algunos inmigrantes encantan la mezcla, algunos se sienten atrapados, pero todos tienen races fuerte con sus pases natales.?Alex Lipson
Brian Crawford
English 100
DueDate March 2020
Dedes Methods of Overcoming Her Fears of Joining the Revolution
Each of the sisters in In the Time of the Butterflies plays a part in the underground revolution against the dictator Trujillo. However, Dede had a unique involvement. And once, as Dede put it, she was, her little underground of one. (181). While each sister had her own struggle to join and to progress the movement, Dede is the sister with the most difficult time joining. While her three other sisters had to struggle with their own decisions and involvement in the movement, Dede is so hesitant to join the movement that she only realized her purpose in it after the movement was over. The nature of Dedes hesitation evolves over time. She is hesitant of ways, but eventually, she overcomes her fears for multifarious reasons.
In comparison to her sisters, Dede had fewer external life-changing experiences that caused her to join the movement. Patria is most comparable to Dede in her level of hesitation about joining the movement. However, Dede does not have an external motivation to join the movement as Patria does. Patria sees the effects of the regime by watching the soldier boy die at the Church on the hill. Dede does not undergo a motivating experience mostly because Dede typically is confined to her familial duties at home. However, even though she was at home, she still felt the stress of the regime. However, Dede was motivated, although not to join the movement directly, to be courageous and not abandon her family out of cravenness. Dede thought about her own family with Jaimito the night after hearing that the SIM had taken Minerva to prison. [Dede] felt a temptation to just let go. To let the craziness overtake her before the SIM could destroy all she loved. But who would take care of her boys? And Mama? Dede could not run away. Courage! It was the first time she had used that word to herself and understood exactly what it meant. (198). Dedes revelation that she needs to stay strong and be, as she says, courageous for her family. So, Dedes implication in the movement is driven by her courage and bravery. In terms of when she feels courageous, Dede says that she felt the courage to protect her family, but she also says that she lacks bravery on her own. Jaimito threatened to leave Dede if she joined the movement. After Jaimito suspected that Dede was considering joining, he took the children to San Francisco. Dede spoke with Minerva about the situation. Ded began to cry, I just have to admit to myself. Im not you [, Minerva, Im not brave]. (186). [Dede] felt brave with Minerva at her side. (187). Dede feels brave when she is with her sisters. This means that with her sisters, Dede can overcome her fear.
Dede makes some compromises with her husband Jaimito, however, in secret, she rebels against him by listening to a forbidden radio station. Dedes husband Jaimito forbids Dede from joining the movement. A barrier like this is not seen with the other sisters. When Mate was in jail and somberly wondering about the outside world, she said, I wanted an excuse to stay home. Like Dede, I just didnt have the nerves for revolution, but unlike her, I didnt have the excuse of a bossy husband. (240). Jaimito is both a literal and symbolic block for Dede. Dede doesnt acknowledge to her sisters that Jaimito is blocking her from doing what she wants to. In fact, she defends him to her sisters after they accuse Jaimito of being a regime supporter. Dede says, Jaimitos no trujillista, [...] No more than Pap. (179). Comparing Jaimito to the sisters father shows both a similar value of importance that Dede places on Jaimito and her father. And, the comparison also shows that the sisters father was flawed like Jaimito. However, Dede rebelled against Jaimito without her sisters knowing. Dede mused about Lio and Minerva intimated that he was speaking on the radio. [Minerva told Dede,] Tune into Radio Rumbox, 99 on your dial. Minerva knew Jaimito would be furious if he found Dede listening to that outlawed station. [...] her little underground of one. (181). Dedes underground of one, while not the actual movement, shows a degree of courage that Dede has for rebellion. Dede was willing to risk her security with Jaimito to hear Lio. While unrelated to her confidence, the fact that Dede rebels against Jaimito for Lio suggests that their relationship is tentative in nature. [Dede] knew, her knees shaking, her breath coming short, that she could not go through with this business. Jaimito was just an excuse. She was afraid, plain and simple, just as she had been afraid to face her powerful feelings for Lio. Instead, she had married Jaimito, although she knew she did not love him enough. (184). This compromise of being with Jaimito when she still had feelings for Lio could parallel Dedes overall yielding to outside stress. In terms of the movement, this can be seen as not overcoming the stress of her fears and not joining her sisters in the underground. However, Dede eventually overcomes her confinement of Jaimito by doing what he forbids, listening to the radio, in order to hear Lio. So, Dede overcomes her hesitation because of love.
Many years after the movement ended, Dede realized her purpose. This allowed her to overcome her hesitation. When Dede recalls the story of her sisters, she regrets not having joined them, and not having done more for the revolution. She overcame her hesitation, but she did so too late. Jaimito, in fact, was the one who gave Dede a focus to tell the story of Dedes sisters. So, with a purpose, Dede was able to overcome her hesitation. At one point, Dede developed enough courage to rebel in such a manner that could have ended up with her dying. Part of Dedes rationale for acting in such a manner could be related to grief over her sisters death which would cause her to act unreasonably. After she hears that her sisters died, Dede was in shock and talking to Jaimito. [Jaimito said,] Dede, what is it you want--to get yourself killed, too? I nodded. I said, I want to be with them. [my sisters.] This is your martyrdom, Dede, to be alive without them. (308). Dedes purpose in the movement, provided to her by Jaimito, was only realized after it was already over. As Jaimito helper her see, her purpose was to stay alive to share her sisters stories. Dede had to endure through remembering her sister's experience so she can educate the next generation of the journalist and her sisters children. However, she would not have overcome her hesitation without the help of Jaimito.
Dede overcame her hesitation in a variety of ways. The obstacles Dede faced in joining the movement were internal, such as lack of courage. She overcame these obstacles through a connection with companionship and love. Because of the fact that Dede needed to connect with others in order to overcome her fears, this could suggest that she is the least self-reliant of the sisters.?Luca Millard-Kish
Brian Crawford
E200 American Literature
1/14/21
Literary Techniques to Show Character
Don't tell me the moon is shining; show me the glint of light on broken glass. This quote, by Anton Chekov, encapsulates the essence of showing rather than telling emotion in narrative fiction. Since short stories, a type of narrative fiction, dont always focus on a plot, like in genre fiction, theyre just meant to depict a fragment of the narrative arc, usually a moment of realization or character evolution. Reading a short story is about asking questions of the text to decipher the authors point. There are two ways to approach storytelling: telling, when we state the emotions and internal shifts of the characters outright, and showing, when we depict the result of these emotions and shifts through the characters actions and dialogue. When we show the characters emotions, we let the readers interpret the scene. An effective way to do this is through literary devices such as imagery, dialogue, and juxtaposition. Well focus on imagery as it appears in the following short stories: The Lottery, To Build A Fire, and Eves Diary. With examples from these stories, well see how to write engaging fiction by showing the characters' inner states rather than stating them explicitly.
	Imagine that the sun has barely risen in the sky as youre wandering through the frigid Yukon, alone. Grey and still, the vast and frozen world stretches to meet the horizon. Are you interested yet? Are you wondering whats going to happen next? If youll be ok? Well, in Jack Londons, To Build a Fire, London expresses emotion by evoking the five senses with imagery. This device is helpful to show characters emotions because it sets the scene and emphasizes descriptions to make a point. For example, London writes, Day had broken cold and grey, exceedingly cold and grey, when the man turned aside from the main Yukon trail and climbed the high earth-bank, where a dim and little-travelled trail led eastward through the fat spruce timberland. (London 1) This adroit use of imagery paints a vivid picture of the vast landscape and shows how alone the man really is by emphasizing his complete isolation. And, with the repetition of cold and grey, the readers imagination is trigger and they begin to use their human ability to create a narrative from literary clues to interpret the emotional state of the man in this story. Imagery can be used to show scale, but it can also be used to describe fine detail. For example, at the point of critical discovery of fire in Mark Twains Eves Diary, Twain writes,  A thin transparent bluish film rose out of the hole, and I [Eve] dropped everything and ran! (Twain 10) This instance of imagery, evoking a sense of wonder and intrigue, presents Eves innocence and capriciousness. First of all, most everybody knows what fire is, and that is not a description of the menacing flames that were all accustomed to. So, in depicting fire in those gentle terms, Twain not only mirrors the gentleness of Eves innocent spirit, but also makes the reader focus on her ignorance about the world she was just brought into. The last example comes from the beginning of Shirley Jacksons, The Lottery. The morning of June 27th was clear and sunny, with the fresh warmth of a full-summer day; the flowers were blossoming profusely and the grass was richly green. (Jackson 1) This florid imagery contrasts the macabre subject of the story and sets up the emotion to be purely superficial and carefree. This mood is later juxtaposed with the dark topic of innocent sacrifice. By avoiding the reality of the story, in the beginning, Jackson lets the reader come to their own conclusions about the townspeoples ignorance. By doing so, Jackson triggers the readers imagination and makes the authors point about the dangers of blindly following tradition even more impactful. From the examples above, we can conclude that imagery is a useful tool in narrative fiction. By engaging the readers senses, the we can put the story in perspective and draw attention to crucial details.
So, do you trust your writing enough to trust your reader? This is the creative risk we take when we choose to show rather than tell whats happening inside the heads of our characters. Showing can lead to a more captivating story since it requires us to engage our brains. To pick up on the hinted nuances, we have to think. In conclusion, when youre looking to intrigue your readers, showing, which leads to their increased imagination and commitment, can express characters emotions in a way that makes the reader want to turn the next page.
?Alex Pichler
Professor Brian Crawford
E200 American Lit.
18 December 2020
Expository Essay: Showing vs. Telling
Dont tell me the moon is shining, show me the glint of the light on broken glass. - Anton Checkhov
One of the key components of short stories is their ability to show the reader a situation indirectly rather than just outright telling them. Short stories are interesting in the fact that they rarely have a complete narrative arc. Instead, short stories are more about the characters and less about the plot. One might ask, What is the story even about? The truth is, more often than not, not much happens in short stories, but that's not the point. To discover the meaning of short stories we must look at what the characters are learning/realizing, and the point that is being made. 
To begin, let us go over what it means when an author shows versus tells something. The ability to show is when authors hint at something without outright saying it, and telling is when authors simply tell the reader the situation without describing or hinting at it. For example, if an author wrote Oliver is mad., they only told the reader what Oliver is feeling. Instead, if the author wrote Olivers face turned red as a fire truck as he scrunched his face in fury., the author depicts Olivers actions to show the reader how Oliver is feeling. In other words, its better to show behavior rather than just tell emotion because it allows the reader to imagine whats happening in their mind. Showing forces the reader to use their own imagination to think Why? while also bringing deeper description and imagery. Some examples of literary techniques that authors use for showing are: description, tone, modifiers, and attributions. Although, we will focus mainly on the use of attributions in the short stories The Lottery by Shirley Jackson, To Build a Fire by Jack London, and Thank You Maam by Langston Hughes. In each of these stories, the use of attributions helps reveal the emotional state of the characters.
Attributions are extremely important in our understanding of a character because they reveal who the character is as a person. The way people talk reveals who they are, which is why dialogue in short stories is so important. In other words, dialogue in stories is less about what the characters do and more about who they are and what they are feeling.
In Thank You Maam, by Langston Hughes, the story begins with a boy attempting to snatch a womans pocketbook. Although, after he fails to accomplish his task, the woman catches him and doesnt release him. After the woman looks the boy in the eyes and tells him she wont let him go, we can see through the boys guilt when he says Im very sorry, lady, Im sorry, whispered the boy (Hughes 1). Here, the word whispered is emphasized as a negative word that is defined as speaking very softly using one's breath. This particular word however reveals the boys compunction by attributing the word whisper to the feeling of shame, for if the boy didnt feel guilty, he wouldn't have whispered that he was very sorry at all. Langston Hughes highlights the word very to show that the boy is not just sorry, but sorry in high degree. From this we can conclude that the boy regrets his actions and feels remorse for what he has done.
Towards the end of Jack Londons To Build a Fire, the main character, a conceited man navigating through the Yukon, steps through the ice covering a river and submerges his foot in the cold water. This situation is dangerous in such a cold landscape, and the only way to save ones self is to build a fire. After numerous failed attempts to build a fire, the man becomes weak and loses his strength. He then panics and runs through the forest desperately looking for any chance to stay alive. After he eventually collapses out of fatigue and weakness, he accepts his fate and regrets disobeying the advice of an old man in Sulfur Creek, who said he should never travel without a partner. Indeed, You were right, old hoss; you were right, the man mumbled to the old-timer of Sulphur Creek (London 11). Here, when the man mumbled that the old hoss in Sulfur Creek was right, the man shows his anger toward the man in Sulfur Creek after he was proved wrong. The man uses old hoss as a negative word towards the man in sulfur creek as a way to express the mans irritation that he was wrong. The word mumbled is also emphasized as a negative word that is defined as saying something indistinctly and quietly. This particular word reveals the mans emotion by using the attribution mumbled to show the reader that the man has given up and accepted that the man in Sulfur Creek was right. We know this because if the man still thought he could safely go alone, he wouldn't have mentioned at all that the man in Sulfur Creek was right. From this we can conclude that the man has accepted his fate and recognizes that he was wrong. 
In the end, there isnt one specific way to show something to the reader. Authors use many different literary devices to hint to readers certain things, like a character's emotions. These hints are ways authors can create clues to what a character could be feeling or thinking, and the reader has to be a detective using each clue to solve the mystery. This is a risk authors have to take when they show something to the reader. Sometimes the reader might overlook or misinterpret the clues the author leaves in the text, and in the process they could miss the whole point of the story. More or less, if one wants to find the true meaning of a story, one must read in between the lines.?The first literary technique we will discuss is the use of modifiers, which is one of the ways authors use in showing a situation. A modifier is a type of descriptive verb that adds further detail to the action of a character. Modifiers can show a lot about the state of the characters to the reader. An author can use modifiers to hint to the reader what a character is thinking or feeling without directly saying it. In The Lottery, Shirley Jackson uses modifiers to hint the state of the characters to the reader. We can see this when Mrs. Hutchinson craned her neck to see through the crowd and found her husband and children standing near the front (Jackson 4). The word craned hints to the reader that Mrs. Hutchinson is eager. The text does this by hinting at Mrs. Hutchinsons alacrity by using the word craned to describe her enthusiasm to find her family and get on with the lottery. We can also find the use of modifiers in Ambrose Bierces An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge when the narrator explains [the mans] brain was on fire, his heart, which had been fluttering faintly, gave a great leap, trying to force itself out of his mouth (Bierce 4). In the text, Bierce uses modifiers like fluttering and force to intensify the story and bring feelings of suspense and action to the reader, while also hinting that the man is fearing for his life and apprehensive. The final example we are going to go over is from Jack Londons To Build a Fire when the narrator explains [the man] plunged in among the big spruce trees (London 2). In this example, the word plunged hints to the reader the mans overconfidence by showing the reader the mans exuberance and arrogance.    
Not only do these examples show how authors can allude characters emotions to the reader by using modifiers, but they also show how readers can accurately catch a characters emotion by reading in-between the lines.
 Finally, the last literary technique we are going to covor is tone. Earlier, we mentioned how attributions can reveal the tone of characters in dialogue, but tone can be its own literary device. By itself, tone can greatly impact the readers perspective of the story and characters. The reason tone has the ability to show and not tell is because it reveals the character/narrators attitude toward something which can lead to the character/narrators emotion. For example, in The Lottery, by Shirley Jackson, the tone of the narrator shifts the readers perspective of the story. In the beginning of the story, Jackson establishes a matter of fact tone to show the reader a certain perspective of what the lottery is without directly writing it. We can see this when narrator explains The children assembled first, of course (Jackson 1). In this example, the text really hints to the reader that this event is casual and ordinary by using an apathetic tone. Not only does this greatly impact the readers perception of the story, but the tone also sets the reader up with a fixed perspective which will dramatically shift towards the end of the narrative. We see another example of this is in Eves Diary, by Mark Twain, when Eve says Do not be downhearted, you poor friendless girl; I will be your friend (Twain 8). In the text, Eves tone really hints at her self pity, while also guiding the reader to empathize with her. The text does this by using depressing words such as poor and friendless to spur emotion in the reader. This connects the reader more deeply to the story and characters. We can also see the use of tone in An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge, by Ambrose Bierce, when the narrator explains No service was too humble for him to perform in the aid of the South (Bierce 3). In the text, the tone shows the protagonists romanticized view of the civil war using the words humble and  aid to play with the readers perspective and interpretation of the story.
Not only can tone play a major role on how the reader interprets a characters emotions (by showing the character/narrators attitude toward something), but tone can also change the readers perspective on the story and have an effect on the reader as well.
From these examples we can discern that the use of attributions can play a major role in showing the reader the current emotional state of the characters by revealing the characters tone.
In the end, one might ask themself, Why is showing so much more effective than telling?, but the truth is sometimes it isnt. It depends on what an author is trying to accomplish. In most cases however, the reason showing is more effective than telling is because it lets the reader use their imagination to see the story through descriptive language and also lets the reader interpret the text based on their own life. One of the many brilliances of literature is that it can be different for everyone. There is no right or wrong answer. Even though showing is usually more effective than telling, some pitfalls of showing are that the story could be misinterpreted or misconstrued by readers. This is because since the text doesnt clearly elucidate the situation, its up to the reader to interpret it, and sometimes the reader might interpret the text differently than what the author intended them to. So why dont authors just tell a situation instead? Well, some pitfalls of telling are that it doesnt reveal much of the characters and is a lot less descriptive than showing. Although, telling can be effective in creating a matter of fact tone, and even though telling is a lot less descriptive, it can really get a point across easily. So when should an author show or tell? To be honest, there is no right or wrong way to know when to show or when to tell, it all just depends on what the author is trying to accomplish and the point the author is trying to send across to the reader.
Towards the end of The Lottery, by Shirley Jackson, Mrs. Hutchinson, who was originally excited about the lottery, ends up having the winning ticket. Although, instead of winning money, Mrs. Hutchinson is stoned to death. As the people pick up rocks to throw at her, she desperately yells It isnt fair, it isnt right, Mrs. Hutchinson screamed, and then they were upon her (Jackson 10). Here, the attribution screamed emphasized as a negative word that is defined as giving a loud cry expressing emotional or physical pain or panic. In this specific scenario, however, the word hints at Mrs. Hutchinsons feeling of desperation. This is because if she didnt feel desperate, she wouldnt have said anything at all and just accepted her fate in the hopeless situation. Also, the word fair is highlighted to show the reader Mrs. Hutchinsons change of perspective after the beginning of the story, when she was excited for the lottery and treated it as a casual event. From this we can conclude that Mrs. Hutchinson is desperate to stay alive and cannot accept her future. We can also conclude that one of the themes of the story is that one can never see the true horrors of something until they themselves are picked to experience it.
Attributions are often used after dialogue to indicate that a character has spoken, but attributions can do much more than just that. An attribution can also describe the way a character spoke, or the tone the character used in dialogue, which can be a BIG hint to the reader of the characters current state or emotion. This is due to the fact that the tone of a persons voice can play a major role in how they are interpreted.
?Luca Millard-Kish
Brian Crawford
E200 American Literature
5/27/21
The Corrosive Effects of Shame
Bren Brown, a researcher and writer who specializes in shame and the ability to grow from it, says that Shame corrodes the very part of us that believes we are capable of change (Brown). An important distinction to make is between shame and guilt. Dr. Brown says that The difference between shame and guilt is the difference between I am bad and I did something bad (Brown). One defines us, yet one we choose how to define. We feel either of these feelings when we do something that contradicts the morality of our society or ourselves. In the novel, The Scarlet Letter, and the play, The Crucible, the authors show us the ramifications of such moral transgressions, specifically within the Puritan society. Puritans believe, among other things, that one must fully repent to God for their sins and that their salvation or damnation rests on the limpid state of their religious purity. In this morally trenchant environment, the ideas of public shame and personal guilt are viewed as necessary means to purge yourself of your wrongdoings. In The Scarlet Letter, Hester Prynne commits adultery, an abomination to the Puritan belief system. She, therefore, is publicly pilloried for her ignominious actions, sentenced to live her life in exile with a scarlet letter branded to her chest, a symbol of her sin. In The Crucible, however, while not one individual was the target of the shaming, the accusations run rampant in a time of suspected witchcraft. These allegations are used to shift conjectures from one townsperson to the other attempting to hide from the courts. Neither of these reactions frees the towns from the miscreants who taint them. In neither of these reactions does the authority and town consider the corrosive effect of shame as mentioned above. The Crucible and The Scarlet Letter, therefore, teach us that public shame and humiliation as a punishment for moral transgressions are unjust and ineffective.
	In both stories, upon hearing the news that someone has sinned, the townspeople instantly turn to blaming, shaming, and gossip. This reaction to such a crisis does nothing to get to the root of the issue. In The Crucible, when Abigail is accused of practicing witchcraft in the woods, she blames Tituba to shift the blame from herself. When questioned, she replies, "She made me do it! She made Betty do it!" (Miller, 43). She is shaming Tituba to protect herself from defamation. In another example from The Scarlet Letter, we see the even more blatant shaming of Hester Prynne. At the beginning of the book, the townspeople disparage Hester and feel that she has brought shame upon us all, and ought to die. They see the scarlet letter as insufficient punishment for sin as terrible as adultery. Looking toward their strict set of morals, codified into law, they ask, Is there not law for it? Truly there is, both in the Scripture and the statute-book (Hawthorne, 49). Both of these examples show us that the townspeople attempt to quell the effect of moral transgressions by punishing the sinners with shame. As mentioned by Dr. Brown at the beginning, this inhibits the sinners from changing to better fit the prescribed set of Puritan morals, purity included. When the sinner is accused of something bad, they often end up feeling worse. When that feeling festers, then the sinners are more likely to act out yet again. Shaming as punishment does nothing but perpetuate this vicious cycle.
	One key issue in both The Scarlet Letter and The Crucible is this idea of purity throughout the town. Purity in the depicted societies is freedom from moral contamination. While the townspeople and authority figures chastise others for their sins, they often overlook their own morally questionable actions. In The Scarlet Letter, Nathaniel Hawthorne gives us a window, through Hesters experience with the scarlet letter, into the lives of the elite. Hester shuddered to believe, yet could not help believing, that [the scarlet letter] gave her a sympathetic knowledge of the hidden sin in other hearts (Hawthorne, 90). This sympathetic knowledge is often triggered by her proximity to the authority figures because Sometimes, the red infamy upon her breast would give a sympathetic throb, as she passed near a venerable minister or magistrate, the model of piety and justice [...] (Hawthorne, 90) This alludes to the fact that the ministers and magistrates might not be as pure as their facades suggest. In this highly religious society, the authority figures are closest to God by their divine right to rule, yet Hesters sympathetic throb senses kinship. While the impurity of the authority figures in The Scarlet Letter is left hidden, only to be noticed by Hester, the authority figures depicted in The Crucible are left entirely unscathed by suspicion. When Hale confronts Danforth saying that There is a prodigious fear of this court in the country, Danforth retaliates by saying Then there is a prodigious guilt in the country." (Miller, 98) By doing so, Danforth effectively shifts any blame directed at the courts and himself back onto the people. Danforth is representative of the law, yet in this play where shame and guilt are thematized Danforths callous denial to take the blame himself shows the hidden corruption within the government. In The Crucible, there is no evidential ground for the accusations to stand on so the theocratic government remains untouched by the prospect of sin within the governing body. The fact that the authority figures are also guilty of sin, whether they express it or not, shows that we as humans are flawed. Accepting this reality, all of the authority figures in both of these stories should have humility in their roles as leaders.
	An effective leader who celebrates those who are succeeding would be remiss in their duty to not also lift up those who are struggling. Recognizing that its not in our infallibility, but in our ability to grow from our mistakes, is the missing piece in the leadership depicted in these two stories. At the beginning of The Scarlet Letter, while Hester sewed for the authority figures, It [was] not recorded that, in a single instance, her skill was called in aid to embroider the white veil which was to cover the pure blushed of a bride. The exception indicated the ever relentless vigor with which the society frowned upon her sin (Hawthorne, 86). This ever relentless vigor subsides over the course of the story as the townspeoples stringent views of sin are swayed to become more understanding. This shift in thinking begins when they recognize that Hesters fellow sinner, Dimmesdale, After exhausting life in his efforts for mankinds spiritual good, [...] had made the manner of his death a parable, in order to impress on his admirers the mighty and mournful lesson, that, in the view of Infinite Purity, we are sinners all alike (Hawthorne, 268). Through the parable of Dimmesdales life and suffering, the townspeople transform their views. Initially alienating the sinner, they can now embrace the fact that were all imperfect. We are sinners all alike (Hawthorne, 268). From this change, we can see that The Scarlet Letter takes an empathetic, and arguably more modern, approach to sin. In contrast, in The Crucible, Danforths pride inhibits him from evolving his thinking, even after he starts to question his initial perception of the issue of witchcraft. He says that [He] cannot pardon these when twelve are already hanged for the same crime. It is not just" (Miller, 129). The rigidity of both Danforth and the courts in their inability to evolve their ideas is detrimental in The Crucible, as it results in the loss of more innocent lives. While Danforth is steadfast in his beliefs, which is a noble thing, his pride blinds him from the consequences of his obstinance. 
	As shown above, the people in The Crucible fail to evolve from their predetermined assumptions and convictions about witchcraft. On the other hand, the people in The Scarlet Letter allow their perception of sin to change. While the townspeople in The Scarlet Letter do evolve, their instinctual reaction was still to outcast and shame the sinner. But, from the evidence and analysis above, we can conclude that it would be more effective to address the issue of sin with compassion and inclusion from the beginning. To extract this lesson and apply it to modern times, lets look at a concrete example. Your child, a new driver, gets their first speeding ticket.  At first, youre quite frustrated about paying the fine, but then you have a couple of choices about how you handle the situation. First, as the Puritans would, you could banish your child from driving the car and hope that the shame of speeding will eventually teach them to not do it in the future. On the other hand, with the lessons obtained from the two stories, you could realize your irritation but then approach the situation with altruism, teaching the child how to watch for speed limit signs and remain safe while driving. As Dr. Brown tells us, If we can share our story with someone who responds with empathy and understanding shame cant survive (Brown). This idea that I am bad does nothing in working towards the society that the Puritans were after many years ago or towards the society that we want to live in today. We can learn from both of these stories to approach moral transgressions with a more open mindset to try to welcome the sinner back into society and give them a sense of belonging.
Works Cited
Brown, Bren. A Quote from i Thought It Was Just Me. www.goodreads.com/quotes/383047-shame-corrodes-the-very-part-of-us-that-believes-we.
Brown, Bren. A Quote from I Thought It Was Just Me. Goodreads, Goodreads, www.goodreads.com/quotes/383047-shame-corrodes-the-very-part-of-us-that-believes-we.
Hawthorne, Nathaniel. Scarlet Letter. Penguin Publishing Group, 2016.
Miller, Arthur. The Crucible. Penguin USA, 2016.
Thakur, Anand. Brene Brown Quote: If We Can Share Our Story with Someone Who Responds with Empathy and Understanding, Shame Can't Survive. Minimalist Quotes, 18 Mar. 2021, minimalistquotes.com/brene-brown-quote-24721/#:~:text=Brene%20Brown%20Quote%3A%20If%20we,%2C%20shame%20can't%20survive. 
?Think back about your learning and creations over the past three weeks. As a reminder, we've explored:
Photography
Stop Motion Animation
Principles of Design
Graphic Design
Branding
Using digital tools to make traditional art accessible online
Video/Audio
During the middle block on Friday, September 18, you'll have time to write a ~1 page reflection where you address the following:
Which form(s) of digital art to you enjoy most? Why?
Which form(s) of digital art required you to learn the most? What specific concepts/skills did you have to learn?
Which form(s) of digital art are less appealing to you?
Which project (Photography Portfolio, Stop Motion Film, Personal Branding Portfolio, PSA Posters, Instructional Video) are you most proud of? Why?
How will you continue to expand and/or use your skills in digital media going forward? Be as specific as you can be.
	I enjoy graphic design the most because there isnt anything that I need other than my ideas. With photography, I need a good camera, and something to take a picture of. Albeit with graphic design one might need software to have fun making designs. I also have the most previous experience with graphic design. I have limited experience with the other topics.
	I think I had to learn the most in terms of branding and icon making. I knew previously that icons needed meaning beyond just looking interesting. The most complicated elements of icon design to me were the branding why statement and how that could be used to influence the design of an icon. I understand that a lot of the conversion is metaphorical and subjective in terms of what images mean to different people, so for those reasons I think the branding why statement was the hardest to understand. I dont know if I have fully learned about how to incorporate the why statement, but the skills that I would need to further develop is the ability to translate a message into an image or symbol--which I know is the entire icon making process. So, to reiterate it all, I found the meaning behind icons difficult to convery, and I could work on that in the future.
	As I mentioned in what forms of art I liked, the inverse applies to what I dislike. I dont enjoy photography and videography because it requires objects that I might not have at my disposal. I think the mindset behind photography is to be creative with what is at your disposal, but I enjoy the mindset behind drawing or graphic design of being creative with whatever you can put down on paper--or some other medium. But I think that when using other mediums that brings in an element of requiring tools that are beyond ones own imagination. So, while paper might be limiting in a medium sense, it also allows for freedom in the sense that all else that is needed is a pen and your brain. Also, Stop motion was very frustrating because I couldnt get a good camera setup. I recall seeing a framed rig with a fixed camera that was angled at a fixed workspace on time. A setup like that where I only had to worry about the content and not the setup would have been more fun given the time we had to record the stop motion videos.
	I am not particularly proud of any of my work. I tried my best on each project, but I really am not very proud of anything in particular. I had the most fun working on the graphic design project, so that is what I am most proud of. This is likely because I had the ability to use the skills that I have previously learned and practiced. Going off on another tangent, I am not really proud of or enjoy most of, if not all of the artwork I do. I think this is the case for a lot of people. It doesnt come from a place of saying that my artwork sucks and fishing for compliments or anything--which I hope that saying that I am not proud of my work is perceived as. Merely just that I tried my best and any enjoyment I might have had from the product, I received in the process, and not the result. Regardless, I guess it is fair to say that I am most proud of the graphic design project because I enjoyed the process of making it the most.
	Since I enjoy playing with graphic design outside of school, I think the skills that I learned during the intensive can carry over. With that being said, I dont think that what I make will improve that much--not because I didnt learn anything, but because learning the design principles is one thing, while applying them effectively takes more practice than we can get in 3 weeks of intensive. So, I hope to practice the application of my newly learnd design principles as I continue to make projects in and out of school.?First Amendment
Instructions
?Read all articles
?Write an outline of your argument
?Write a speech that argues that the First Amendment covers the actions of Debs, Abrams, and Schenck were lawful and constitutional. 
?Argue against the decisions delivered. Also, talk about WWI and how the Espionage Act relates to civil liberties in a time of war. 
?Speech - 600-800 words long
?5 quotes from relevant sources. They must be primary sources. 
?Structured as if you were delivering a speech to a crowd of Americans outside of the Supreme Court.
?A complete bibliography
?A video recording of you delivering your speech 3-5 minutes long.
Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances.
Outline
?Introduction
?What does the 1st Amendment say - No law shall be made about
?What does it say about the freedom of speech - no abridgment, nearly means curtail, means reduce in extent or quantity; impose a restriction on.
?Schneck
?Whats it about - gave out pamphlets that said to disobey the draft but only through peaceful means.
?Leaflet argued that the draft violated the 13th amendment by forcing involuntary servitude to the country.
?Debs
?Whats it about - trying to cause insubordination and refusal of duty in the military
?Abrams
?Whats it about - denounced the sending of American troops to Russia; advocated for the cessation of the production of weapons to be used against Soviet Russia
?"Only the emergency that makes it immediately dangerous to leave the correction of evil counsels to time warrants making any exception to the sweeping command, 'Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech.'" Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes; wasnt clear and present danger
?Espionage Act
?Whats it about - in order to focus on the war, internal trifle and opposition from within the country must be stifled.
?The insidious methods of internal hostile activities. Woodrow Wilson
?Conclusion
?The Supreme Court should very careful when making laws that abridge the freedom of speech
?These cases were not clear and present danger
?No cases of voicing an opinion comparable to Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes comparison of falsely shouting Fire! in a crowded theatre, which is not permitted under the First Amendment. 
Speech
The first amendment was the first-ever evolutionary event in the life of the constitution, this amendment said not what Congress should do, but rather, what it should not. Due to its brevity, the entire amendment can be read. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances. Most importantly, and most relevantly to the three cases of Schneck, Debs, and Abrams, and the Espionage Acts, the first amendment says that congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech. Abridging, in a legal sense, nearly means curtailing, which means imposing a restriction upon. So, Congress shall not make any law restricting the freedom of speech. However, the supreme court, incorrectly in some cases, decided that certain speech was not protected.
In the case of Schneck v. the United States, Charles Schneck distributed pamphlets that said to disobey the draft but only through peaceful means. In the leaflets, Schneck argued that the draft violated the thirteenth amendment by forcing involuntary servitude upon the young men of the country. The thirteenth amendment states that [...] Involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States [...]. Schneck wrote, This is tyrannical power in its worst form. It gives control over the life and death of the individual to a few men. While Schnecks leaflets opposed the government, they are protected by the last phrase of the first amendment, Schneck had a right to petition the government for a redress of grievances. But, Schnecks audience was the American people, to provoke thought and uphold civil liberty, not violence. As Schneck said, If you do not assert and support your rights, you are helping to deny or disparage rights which it is the solemn duty of all citizens and residents of the United States to retain. Likewise, Debs explained his concern about the draft in a public speech. Debs wrote, I must be extremely careful, prudent, as to what I say, and even more careful and prudent as to how I say it. Debs recognized the danger of a dissenting opinion, but he was willing to face the consequences, yet, as his speech was not inciting riot or violence, it is protected by freedom of speech.
In the case of Abrams v. the United States, two leaflets were written that denounced the sending of American troops to Russia and advocated for the cessation of the production of weapons to be used against Soviet Russia. While the Supreme Court decided that these pamphlets were treasonous, a dissenting opinion came from Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes. He said, "Only the emergency that makes it immediately dangerous to leave the correction of evil counsels to time warrants making any exception to the sweeping command, 'Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech.'" According to him, the leaflets did not cause clear and present danger. While Abrams opinions are protected under freedom of speech, his critical writing of the United States action in Russia was considered felonious under the unconstitutional Espionage Acts.
The Espionage Acts, while intended to prevent The insidious methods of internal hostile activities. according to President Woodrow Wilson, in reality, unconstitutionally abridged the right to freedom of speech. It makes sense that in order to focus on the war, internal trifles and opposition from within the country must be stifled, yet the Espionage Acts went too far, causing legitimate criticisms of the government such as in the Abrams v. United States case, to be considered seditious. According to the Supreme Court, Abrams violated section three, title one of the Espionage Act, the court claimed that Abrams "intended to incite, provoke and encourage resistance to the United States [...]"
So, to learn from these cases, it can be seen that the Supreme Court should very careful when making laws that abridge the freedom of speech. The illegality of speech spins on the idea of clear and present danger. It is clear that these cases were not clear and present danger. None of the aforementioned three cases regarding voicing a critical opinion the government of the United States are comparable to falsely shouting Fire! in a crowded theatre. This is Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes comparison of some of the only speech that is not permitted under the First Amendment.
Works Cited
U.S. Constitution. Amend. I.
U.S. Constitution. Amend. XIII.
The Espionage Act of 1917. Digital History, www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/disp_textbook.cfm?smtID=3&amp;psid=3904. 
Free Speech on Trial. U.S. National Archives, www.archives.gov/publications/prologue/2017/winter/debs-canton. 
World War I Anti-Draft Pamphlet. U.S. National Archives, artsandculture.google.com/asset/world-war-i-anti-draft-pamphlet-charles-schenck/dAE1fuuw7-VcEA?hl=en. ?
PART ONE
The 1968 Democratic Convention began as our national anthem played. Carl Albert, leader of the proceedings, stood to honor our country along with the other delegates. Some of the protesters who came to demonstrate, namely Abbie Hoffman, came with complicated feelings towards our anthem. A proponent of peace, Hoffman gave the peace hand motion as the Convention commenced. This juxtaposition between delegates and protestors, symbolic of their differing views, was about to be unleashed.
	Mayor Richard Daley followed the anthem with his welcome to the American people and his thoughts on civil unrest, law and order, and foreign affairs. After his welcome, I was allowed to ask him a couple of questions regarding his speech. Upon inquiring about his stance on the war in Vietnam he replied that My ideas are not exactly in one spot. Im still open to options such as escalation, maintaining the status quo, or de-escalation. All in service to peace. Which one of these routes Daley decides to pursue in his running we have yet to see on the second day of this convention.
	The next speech of the morning came from vice president Hubert Humphrey. Humphrey spoke to urge the American people to stay calm in this time of civil unrest. When questioned about the ever-growing protests and riots, he claimed that if chosen, he would Do what is good for the American people. By doing so he believes that They will stop protesting. In this reporters opinion, from what Ive witnessed in the streets of Chicago and all around the United States, positivity alone wont quell the rampant unrest. This opinion is shared with some of the protesters I got to hear from after the mornings events. 
In reaction to the words of the delegates this morning, Bella Abzug, wearing a voluminous hat per usual, made it clear that she and the other protestors were less than pleased, as they seek a complete withdrawal and de-escalation [from Vietnam]. In addition to Ms. Abzug, Hoffman, sporting a wonderful tie-dye tee-shirt, also took issue with the vague and indirect words of the delegates this morning. Hoffman felt that the gap between the reality of the delegates and the reality of the common people couldnt be wider. Their inability to relate to the lives of the average American was overwhelmingly clear.
	Yet another perspective of the mornings proceedings was that of Bobby Seale, from the black activist group, The Black Panthers. He appeared to be woefully disappointed with the lack of focus on the lives of black Americans. And, more than just lack of focus, he stated that while the delegates never explicitly mention the suppression of Black voices, their policy and outlook on the convention stifle the black opinion. Keep an eye out for more ideas from Seale later as well be getting the full scoop from him in a separate interview. 
Similarly, in final thoughts and reactions from protestors, Lavin urged that there was too much police presence. Well see how this plays out as the protestors grow increasingly desperate to have their voices heard. For the time being, Dellinger concurred with the aforementioned points. We hope to hear more on his goals and opinions in the coming days of the convention.
PART TWO
Tensions already rising, the delegates and protestors dispersed into their respective groups to reconvene after discussion of the mornings events. The protestors, obviously disgruntled by the reluctance of the delegates to confront the most pressing issues up for debate left to discuss and plan. The delegates now began to vote on and solidify the platform on which they would be chosen to run on come November. Below is a breakdown of the policy decisions of the delegates:
DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM 1968
Criminal Justice: Mayor Daley, attempting to act with directness, calls for additional funding for criminal courts and other bodies that aid to control crime.
War on Poverty: Humphrey reiterates earlier points assuring that ALL Americans will be able to live up to their full potential when he increases spending on the War on Poverty. The result of which being food stamps and other support programs to fill the bellies of Americas families
Civil Rights: Kennedy reluctant to speak on civil rights but assures his involvement in issues related to Vietnam. Well see this in the coming days of the convention. Albert talks about civil rights saying that he will not look for problems where they might not be. Criminal justice funding will help protect those facing injustice. Daley reminds us of Federal agencies in place to protect the liberties of the Civil Rights Act. In addition, he fears a bias of federal investigations and therefore leaves it up to the states themselves. He says this is not the federal governments place to step in, and feels that the issue of civil rights has been dealt with to the extent needed
Infrastructure: Daley refers to the infrastructure plan as An idea ALL Americans can get behind  as it aims to increase spending on projects such as highways, railroads, and other amenities. He believes his policies will Uplift all of America by helping the working man and the businessman both.
PROTESTORS COME AWAY DISSATISFIED BY DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM
	
As the delegates present the policy platform on which they will run, the protestors made their voices heard. Conducting a march to raise awareness of their cause, the protestors took to the streets raising their fists to the sky refusing to accept a neutral stance. Mayhem ensued despite Daleys assurance that no neutral stance has been taken. While politicians urge that they plan on being direct with the people, Abzug takes challenge. This reporter hopes to get to the root of Mr. Humphreys plans to quell the growing uncertainty from the protestors.
	
Tensions rise from both sides as Daley attempts to console the onlookers by condescendingly reminding them that the protestors are but a small batch of protestors. They are not representative of the country's values and the entirety of its people. Per usual, Hoffman retaliates scathingly stating that the government isnt for us, it never will be. This convention is a lie. As we can see, both sides are in stark disagreement at this time. To illustrate his point, Hoffman proceeds to present pigasus as a candidate for president. Now, for the first time in the convention, we get to hear a public announcement from Kenney as he takes offense from Hoffmans audacity to label the convention, and by extension the government itself, All a lie. With such a politically involved family, this comment really hit home for Kennedy.
	Amidst the chaos, it is broadcast that:
THE POLICE TRIED TO ARREST ABBIE HOFFMAN. THE ATTEMPT HAS FAILED. ABBIE IS AT LARGE
	This action of arrest appeared to do nothing to silence the voices of the protestors. In conversation with Hoffman after the incident, he freely referred to the government and the policy system as An agent of oppression. While this arrest may deter some, Hoffman states that [Hes] been arrested before, and [hell] do it again! [Hell come out here and say what [he] want[s] to say! Oh, the power of words! Abzug feels far from satisfied with the policy platform and the delegates reaction to the protest spotting the contradiction in their words. They preached for democracy, yet they appear to be quite threatened by just words. Seale brings up neglect for the black voice and the fact that the politicians seem to be addressing issues such as transportation and infrastructure to shift the focus from the more dire issue of civil rights and education of black youth. More on Seales goal and opinions to come. In agreement, Dellinger states that the platform of the delegates Contradicts the ideas of freedom, equality, and liberty for all. We hope to hear more from him on why he feels this way
In conclusion, at the end of a long day of debate and protest, the chasm between the values of the
delegates and values of the protestors could not be wider. In the coming days, the delegates get their chance to appeal to the American people. And, by the looks of it now, they have a great deal of work to do.
DELEGATE VOTING OUTCOMES
War on Poverty: Connally, Humphrey, Kennedy, Daley, and Albert all pledge all delegates
Civil Rights: Connally, Humphrey, Kennedy, Daley, and Albert abstain.
Criminal Justice (law and order): Connally, Humphrey, Kennedy, Daley, and Albert all pledge all delegates
Infrastructure: Connally, Humphrey, Kennedy, Daley, and Albert all pledge all delegates
***UNANIMOUS AGREEMENT***?Humphrey:Following the speeches zug and Dellinger, the protestors now leavelast events of the day begin as like to share with the press?
	In closing thoughts, Yet to show that the protestors are far from satisfied with the entirety
RE DEMOCSESSION***De-escalate the war, Continue inclusion of civil rights on the platform. In this fiery speech, Abzug attacks the delegates Mr. Burroughs,before the sit-in, the protestors feel that If [the delegates] arent going to hear our voices, [theyll] 
INTERVIEW: HOFFMAN WORRIEShaving fun is seen as a temper tantrumDaley:
 to pledge all delegates to1968the proponent of peace  In all seriousness, [their] mereonstructs and realities such as laws and capitalism inhibit us from living fully. HoffmELIEFS ARE BEING MISUNDERSTOOD
this peaceful demonstration t His rationale is that if we present as defensive, results do you hope?American Military will stopChicago PART absurdKennedy: CriminalVOTING TOimmediate issue, we can expect growing well as remove 50,000Daley
your demands arent heardDaley views the protestors  communal lifestyle, Hoffman said, IAs debate continues amongst the delegates, Esquire Magazine
ere until they are heard. Dellinger feels that the delegates are not representinates and onlookers in the convention hall alike, he states, referring to Vietnam, that he is personally shocked at the lack of progress we are making in the region. The systemic mismanagement leads him to con TWOcus on black oppression first and then, and only then, can we focus Mr. Connolly shared his strong views on the issue of Vietnam. In this influence the the Vietnamese so much as intimate an  HIS Bmetimes seen as radical, but it doesnt really do anything. In contrast, what he does is interesting, itsde-escalation of the war
Albert:PLATnsively around Saigon
1)Search for peace unless provoked
 to pay their respects to their country whilst some protestors refrain from doing so. 
PLATFORM Sndment rights, Hoffman says that if we will not be heard, we will be seen! As the demonstration peacefully conastructure
an said that hell continue using  are your beliefs, and how do you feel they are being misunderstood?
In response to this, I, Hoffman replied that it was quite a loaded question.  inquiry,While Abzug refrains from joining the sit-in, hrey and Connolly concede defeat. All delegates agree to no longer take an offensive stance in Vietnam, as that dhis plan is to win over
the hearts and minds of the American voters by creating the image of a peaceful party.THREErotestors are quite surprised by this decision to de-escalate Vietnam. Abzug feels that we are on the right track, lets bConnolly:
 to pledge
protestors, jailed and hospitalized, will be released and recoveof troops currently deployed there, this gives the American people hope. The democratic party seeks a peaceful soloing this, he hot all people have the right to live. In a society where having fun is seen as rebellious, Hoffman seeks to have fun and disrupt things. He feels that his view on living is being oppressed not only by individual delegates at this future of Wounds opened on the firste, the fight against the spread of communism. With this belief, he accuses the protestors of being und who hoped hed represent them, he now speaks on issues oes voted to represent a platform t
 disperse into their respective groups to discuss, debate, and plan
PARTKennedy and Daley agree thhe war are as follows: Maintain the status quo, increase troops and force, or de-escalate the war with the withdrawal ay from the formalities of the convention hall where the delegates shared their thoughts this morning, we now hear from Mr. Bobby Seale, profiled in the Esquireonly hope that Mr. Daley isNext,disputes fly, the semblance of a plan begins to take form.e difference in approach between theHoffman says that hes not looking for any success from the convention tomorrow, as [his] success comes from when  Dedicated INTERNATI de-escalation of the war
1)federal intervention if but saying that the democratic party cares more for its trains than its people.our racist government. The 
2) needed
3)Vietnam: de-escalation
Hoffman grounded his point, saying, that these people, the pigs, arent our real representatives. Whiletry to understand more why hes doing it. In his opinion, while picketing and petitioning are e air. Its becoming clear that they must take direct action if they areful approach, Humphrey feels that if they wont listen to reason, welegat%hat focut o back down from Vietnam now is cowardice. He views the war in Vietnam as a larger issu%ercover communists themselves.
Wornings speeches begin.
	For the first time at this convention, we get to hear Mr. Ted Kenneys perspecnoly and Humphrey stand o show them that they arent. TstroATFORM SUMMall delegates to de-escalation of the war
 the protest zone to stage their peaceful sit-in. As they exercise their first ameonvene having come to a mn pigs are actually the loud minority,consensus.
Hoffman declares that if the police force meets them with violence, then they will retaliate.ellings the whole 
ng in their belief that de-escalation will only lead to increased enemy strength and In the meeting of the delegates, impassioned deliberation ensues. Te must fight for the free world we believe in. After much  Hoffman, worried that his beliefs were being misconstrued, contacted the Esquireprotestors is just as apparent as with the delegates. ist tactics to gain at Well wait to see hoeres something there.Daley, agitated in the disdepartment ONAL PL
1)War ona loud minority, Hoffman believes poverty
2)Infrastruc
red in time for the third and last day of the convention., Abzug, in yet another hat, confronts the ds he presents the policy platform for foreign affairs that all the delegates have degoal is to do thingmayor Daley throws the entire American system. Ccorrupt system. offer you this exclusiveoes nothing but perpetuate the cycle of protestors meet-up. Talk of a deaths, but as Daley warns, if confident in
hen questioned for further information on this claim, ART ONof my character. I canE
	satisfied.
	To conclude the speeches of the morning, 
Day two of the conventionday of convention leave both the delegates and protestor on edge as the tives. While he refrained from offering his thoughts on civil  replied by saying that opposition to the war is communistic propaganda. eale reiterates the fact that to achiMagazine just days before. Sre. Seale feels that step Daley makes a subdued, yet patronizing
[my]
the democratic party rests on decisions made here. The choices regarding t%of troopsat the US must take a defensive stance in the war. While Daleydirection of civil rights, yet the dtargeted at myself, writer William S. Burroughs of Esquire Mag Bothoffensive, we will be back in there. T cause disruption and make a speech that he hopes makes them angry. Daleyslooking at [him]. Bythird day of the cAny last thougcided on. In summary, the tinues, traction from the convention, sets thering our men out of touch with the American onvention.
peopleboth groups rec.
to tellings the whole story, he threatens that if no accountability iof the delegates. I, therefore, did thipolicy of de-escalation appears to be the only chair, Carl Albert, leadstion. Following Kennedys speech, Mayor Dal As
	Dellinger and Abzug
gets an insideual results of the convention, he states that he just hopes  tactics play out on the protestors in the coming dayswith a scathing speech its not Humphrey, offering no explicit RATICncrease fundingyou and the yippie party respond?
power. While Daley and Kennedy urgecrucial stage of the war, he pledge of allegiance.real shockGrabbing theAmerican system of government, t Launching must return to the war to stop the communist Daley1968
is hospitalized, and all the others are arrested with minor injuries. While this arrest of peaceful demonstrators takes decision to abstain fro to pledge all dCivil rights: states decOCCUR NEX takes the first word 
by saying that everything the delegates stand for is inherently corrupt?
PART ONE
	
Day two of the convention begins as convention chair, Carl Albert, leads the pledge of allegiance. Delegates stand to pay their respects to their country whilst some protestors refrain from doing so. Wounds opened on the first day of convention leave both the delegates and protestor on edge as the mornings speeches begin.
	For the first time at this convention, we get to hear Mr. Ted Kenneys perspectives. While he refrained from offering his thoughts on civil rights, a real shock to the protestors who hoped hed represent them, he now speaks on issues of foreign affairs in Vietnam. Grabbing the attention of the delegates and onlookers in the convention hall alike, he states, referring to Vietnam, that he is personally shocked at the lack of progress we are making in the region. The systemic mismanagement leads him to conclude that at this point, it is impossible to win this war, and that a policy of de-escalation appears to be the only option. Following Kennedys speech, Mayor Daley assures no escalation in Vietnam. More on this debate later on. Next, Daley makes a subdued, yet patronizing remark targeted at myself, writer William S. Burroughs of Esquire Magazine, to take full advantage of [my] press credentials to attend the private meetings of the delegates. I, therefore, did this despite the protestor-centric focus of my character. I can only hope that Mr. Daley is satisfied.
	To conclude the speeches of the morning, Mr. Connolly shared his strong views on the issue of Vietnam. In this crucial stage of the war, he claimed that to back down from Vietnam now is cowardice. He views the war in Vietnam as a larger issue, the fight against the spread of communism. With this belief, he accuses the protestors of being undercover communists themselves. When questioned for further information on this claim, Connolly replied by saying that opposition to the war is communistic propaganda. 
	To shift away from the formalities of the convention hall where the delegates shared their thoughts this morning, we now hear from Mr. Bobby Seale, profiled in the Esquire Magazine just days before. Seale reiterates the fact that to achieve the peace the delegates speak of, we must first dismantle our racist government. The policies must focus on black oppression first and then, and only then, can we focus on the more superficial issues of infrastructure. Seale feels that steps could have been taken in the direction of civil rights, yet the delegates voted to represent a platform that focuses on other issues. To conclude his speech, he threatens that if no accountability is taken, you will hear our cries in the streets. 
	Protestors and delegates alike are tense as they disperse into their respective groups to discuss, debate, and plan.
PART TWO
	
In the meeting of the delegates, impassioned deliberation ensues. This future of the democratic party rests on decisions made here. The choices regarding the war are as follows: Maintain the status quo, increase troops and force, or de-escalate the war with the withdrawal of troops. As disputes fly, the semblance of a plan begins to take form. Both Kennedy and Daley agree that the US must take a defensive stance in the war. While Daley is confident in the US troops, they have a disadvantage by not knowing the area. His rationale is that if we present as defensive, then we are seen as peacekeepers rather than warmongers. Both Connoly and Humphrey stand strong in their belief that de-escalation will only lead to increased enemy strength and power. While Daley and Kennedy urge a more peaceful approach, Humphrey feels that if they wont listen to reason, we must fight for the free world we believe in. After much deliberation, Humphrey and Connolly concede defeat. All delegates agree to no longer take an offensive stance in Vietnam, as that does nothing but perpetuate the cycle of deaths, but as Daley warns, if the Vietnamese so much as intimate an offensive, we will be back in there. This plan is to win over the hearts and minds of the American voters by creating the image of a peaceful party.
	As debate continues amongst the delegates, Esquire Magazine gets an inside look at the happenings in the protestors meet-up. Talk of a peaceful sit-in hovers in the air. Its becoming clear that they must take direct action if they are to influence the decisions made by the delegates. With a speech from Dellinger and Abzug planned for before the sit-in, the protestors feel that If [the delegates] arent going to hear our voices, [theyll] sit here until they are heard. Dellinger feels that the delegates are not representing his ideals, so hell use this peaceful demonstration to show them that they arent. The difference in approach between the protestors is just as apparent as with the delegates. While Abzug refrains from joining the sit-in, Hoffman declares that if the police force meets them with violence, then they will retaliate.
INTERVIEW: HOFFMAN WORRIES HIS BELIEFS ARE BEING MISUNDERSTOOD
	
Mr. Abbie Hoffman, worried that his beliefs were being misconstrued, contacted the Esquire Magazine. Dedicated to telling the whole story, I, Mr. Burroughs, offer you this exclusive interview with Mr. Hoffman. 
What are your beliefs, and how do you feel they are being misunderstood?
In response to this inquiry, Hoffman replied that it was quite a loaded question. Launching into his ideas about living freely and in a communal lifestyle, Hoffman said, I assume directed at the American system of government, that all people have the right to live. In a society where having fun is seen as rebellious, Hoffman seeks to have fun and disrupt things. He feels that his view on living is being oppressed not only by individual delegates at this convention but the entire American system. Constructs and realities such as laws and capitalism inhibit us from living fully. Hoffman concluded by saying that everything the delegates stand for is inherently corrupt because it serves a corrupt system.
What results do you hope for from the voting tomorrow?
	Hoffman says that hes not looking for any success from the convention tomorrow, as [his] success comes from when mayor Daley throws a temper tantrum over [their] mere presence. He plans to cause disruption and make a speech that he hopes makes them angry. Daleys reactions inspire glee in [his] heart. In all seriousness, in terms of the actual results of the convention, he states that he just hopes its not Humphrey, offering no explicit reason as to why.
If your demands arent heard and met, how will you and the yippie party respond?
	In response, Hoffman said that hell continue using absurdist tactics to gain attention. His goal is to do things to get people looking at [him]. By doing this, he hopes that people will try to understand more why hes doing it. In his opinion, while picketing and petitioning are sometimes seen as radical, but it doesnt really do anything. In contrast, what he does is interesting, its a story, theres something there. Well wait to see how these tactics play out on the third day of the convention.
Any last thoughts youd like to share with the press?
	In closing thoughts, Hoffman grounded his point, saying, that these people, the pigs, arent our real representatives. While Daley views the protestors as a loud minority, Hoffman believes that the pigs are actually the loud minority, out of touch with the American people.
PART THREE
	
The last events of the day begin as both groups reconvene having come to a consensus. Daley takes the first word as he presents the policy platform for foreign affairs that all the delegates have decided on. In summary, the American Military will stop all bombing in Vietnam as well as remove 50,000 troops from the region. While this is a mere fraction of the number of troops currently deployed there, this gives the American people hope. The democratic party seeks a peaceful solution, yet if peace is not had, we must return to the war to stop the communist spread, Daley says.
	The protestors are quite surprised by this decision to de-escalate Vietnam. Abzug feels that we are on the right track, lets bring our men home, and Dellinger concurs that they have made the right decision. Yet to show that the protestors are far from satisfied with the entirety of the democratic platform decision, Abzug, in yet another hat, confronts the delegates with a scathing speech addressing the delegates decision to abstain from the inclusion of civil rights on the platform. In this fiery speech, Abzug attacks the delegates focus on infrastructure but saying that the democratic party cares more for its trains than its people.
	Following the speeches from Abzug and Dellinger, the protestors now leave the protest zone to stage their peaceful sit-in. As they exercise their first amendment rights, Hoffman says that if we will not be heard, we will be seen! As the demonstration peacefully continues, Daley, agitated in the distraction from the convention, sets the Chicago police department on the protestors. Abzug, the proponent of peace, is hospitalized, and all the others are arrested with minor injuries. While this arrest of peaceful demonstrators takes care of the immediate issue, we can expect growing discontent from the protestors in the coming days. The protestors, jailed and hospitalized, will be released and recovered in time for the third and last day of the convention.
INTERNATIONAL PLATFORM SUMMARY 1968
1)De-escalate the war, withdraw troops and stop the bombing
2)Continue to hold defensively around Saigon
3)Search for peace unless provoked
Daley:
 to pledge all delegates to de-escalation of the war
Kennedy:
 to pledge all delegates to de-escalation of the war
Connolly:
 to pledge all delegates to de-escalation of the war
Humphrey:
 to pledge all delegates to de-escalation of the war
Albert:
 to pledge all delegates to de-escalation of the war
ENTIRE DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM
1)War on poverty
2)Infrastructure: develop
3)Criminal justice: increase funding
4)Civil rights: states decide, federal intervention if needed
5)Vietnam: de-escalation
***VOTING TO OCCUR NEXT SESSION***?Make the Case
Although I am Asian, I am first and foremost an American. I have lived here my entire life and am proud to call it my home. As an American citizen I have interest in the Plessy v. Ferguson because I feel my rights are affected by the decision in this case. I am a resident of Louisiana who travels extensively, and I think my freedom of movement is my inalienable right. According to the Separate Car Act, any passenger insisting on going into a coach or compartment to which by race he does not belong, shall be liable to a fine of twenty-five dollars or in lieu thereof to imprisonment for a period of not more than twenty days in the parish prison. According to this law, a man named Homer Plessy could not use the white only car because he was only ? white. He was asked to vacate the car but he refused to do so. He was arrested as a result  and was eventually convicted. The argument for his conviction is the idea of separate but equal which proposes that the rights of people of different races are not violated by requiring them to travel in separate train cars. Although the 14th amendment intended to establish equality of all citizens regardless of race, the actual equality wasnt achieved in the Southern States after the civil war.  
The US faced a difficult problem of rebuilding the South ravaged by the Civil War which lasted from 1861- 1865. One of the USs goals was to rebuild the economy and integrate the South with the more economically developed Northern states. Another big challenge was dealing with the consequences of slavery and providing the former slaves with equal oportunities. This required to stop the discrimination of people on the basis of their race which was the intention of the 13th and 14th amendemnts. According to the 13th, Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, which effectively abloshed slavery. This was followed with the 14th amendment which stated that, No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. In 1875, the Civil Rights Act clarified the meaning of the 14th amendment by stating that All persons shall be entitled to the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, and accommodations of any place of public accommodation, as defined in this section, without discrimination on the ground of race, color, religion, or national origin. This essentially prohibited both private citizens and organizations from discriminating based on the color of ones skin. This law applied to public places such as restaurants and cinema as well as public transportation such as the railway system. Unfortunately, in the Civil Rights Cases the Supreme Court interpreted the 13th and 14th amendments in such a way that the discrimination was only prohibited for the state and not for individuals or corporations. One of the judges, Justice Joseph P. Bradley stated that The essence of the law is not to declare broadly that all persons shall be entitled to the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations... but that such enjoyment shall not be subject to any conditions applicable only to citizens of a particular race or color, or who had been in a previous condition of servitude. This resulted in the Civil Rights Act being effectively nullified which led to the enactment of the Separate Car Act in the state of Louisiana along with many other similar state laws. 
This leads us back to the case of Plessy v. Ferguson in which the Separate Car Act was used to prevent Homer Plessy from traveling in the white only car. Although he was convicted in the end I would argue that the courts decision was in many ways flawed. Although railways are owned by a private company, they are inherently a monopoly. There is only one track on which the train can go, meaning it is impossible to start a private business which can rival the existing one unless an entirely new railway system is built. In my area, the railway is the only way I can travel long distances both in and out of the state. According to the 5th amendment, as a citizen of the US i cannot be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law which includes the liberty to travel. The Separate Car Act forces the railway company to provide separate cars for black and white people, but I do not fall into either category. By the logic of the separate but equal doctrine, every race should have their own train car in order to maintain equality. As a minority, my rights are violated due to the inability of the railways to provide equality for all the other races. Therefore, the only solution is to give all citizens the liberty to travel in any car. The 14th amendment states  ...nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law which guarantees my right to travel and therefore use the railway without impediment. I believe that the Separate Car Act is a slippery slope that will only divide us as more as time goes by. As more people immigrate into this country, these laws will only prove to divide us more in a time where we should be united in one common goal of improving this country. 
Works Cited
History.com Editors. Plessy v. Ferguson. History.com, A&E Television Networks, 29 Oct. 2009, www.history.com/topics/black-history/plessy-v-ferguson. 
Separate Car Act. Encyclopdia Britannica, Encyclopdia Britannica, Inc., www.britannica.com/topic/Separate-Car-Act. 
| Supreme Court | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute. Legal Information Institute, Legal Information Institute, www.law.cornell.edu/supremecourt/text/109/3#:~:text=The%20essence%20of%20the%20law,only%20to%20citizens%20of%20a. 
The 5th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. National Constitution Center  The 5th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, constitutioncenter.org/interactive-constitution/amendment/amendment-v. 
The 14th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. National Constitution Center  The 14th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, constitutioncenter.org/interactive-constitution/amendment/amendment-xiv. 
The 13th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. National Constitution Center  The 13th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, constitutioncenter.org/interactive-constitution/amendment/amendment-xiii. 
Transcript of Civil Rights Act (1964). Our Documents - Transcript of Civil Rights Act (1964), www.ourdocuments.gov/doc.php?flash=false&doc=97&page=transcript. 
?05/03/2021
Waste Purification 
Lab Notebook
Luca Millard-Kish
S200 Chemistry
Table of Contents 
PREPARATORY LABS:
Mystery Metal Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Heat of Fusion Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Ethanol Burn Lab  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
SYNTHETIC WASTE EVALUATION:
Waste Dehydration Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Waste Combustion Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Mystery Metals Lab
Date: 3/24/21
Purpose: The Mystery Metals Lab aims to ascertain the identity of an unknown metal using its specific heat, determined by temperature changes of the system and surroundings.
Procedure:
1.Mass the piece of metal.
2.Make a coffee cup calorimeter and mass it.
3.Add water; re-mass the calorimeter.
4.Boil some water (enough to submerge sample). 
5.Remove the pot from the stove and place the sample of metal in the boiling water with tongs. 
6.Wait 2 minutes, then record the temperature of the water at the exact time the metal is taken out of the beaker. 
7.Record the water temperature in the cup, then add the metal to the cup (with tongs to avoid spilling). 
8.Wait until the temperature in the cup has stabilized, and record the final temp. 
Data Table:
Mass of Metal (g)
Initial Temp of Metal in Hot Water (C)
Mass of Cup (g)
Mass of Cup w/ Water (g)
Initial Temp of Water in Cup (C)
Final Temp of Mixture (C)
Trial 1
58.08
73.89
4.78
121.97
19.44
25.00
Trial 2
58.08
74.44
4.78
133.88
20.00
23.89
Trial 3
58.08
79.44
4.78
140.26
19.44
24.44
Table 1. Determination of mystery metals through specific heat.
Equations:
Calculations:
Determine the specific heat of the metal (using data from each trial).
Determine the average specific heat of the metal.
Determine the identity of the metal: Zinc
Conclusion: With the data recorded above and the Law of Conservation of Energy, we were able to determine the specific heat and, therefore, the mystery metals identity. While my calculated specific heat was .854, far higher than that of zinc (the real identity of my sample), that error could be attributed to a couple of different factors. First of all, the thermometer that I used wasnt digital, and therefore I had to make estimations as to what the temperature in Fahrenheit was before converting it into celsius. Secondly, the at-home balances can sometimes be finicky and not entirely accurate. These two factors are likely contributors to the error in my data.
Heat of Fusion Lab
Date: 4/2/21
Purpose: The Heat of Fusion Lab aims to ascertain the heat of fusion of ice using calorimetry and thermochemistry.
Procedure:
1.Make a coffee cup calorimeter and mass it
2.Fill the calorimeter with water and re-mass it
3.Put in the thermometer and wait for the water and thermometer to come to thermal equilibrium; then record the temperature of the water as the initial temperature
4.Record the temperature of the freezer as the temperature of ice
5.Add 2-3 ice cubes to the calorimeter
6.Stir the ice cubes and water mixture with the thermometer
7.Record the temperature of the final mixture as the final temperature before the temperature begins to rise 
8.Mass the entire calorimeter with ice and water (without the thermometer)
9.Repeat steps 1-7 for a total of three trials
Data Table:
Mass of cup (w/o water) (g)
Mass of cup (w/ water) (g)
Initial Temp of Water in Cup (C)
Mass of cup (w/ water + ice) (g)
Temp of ice (C)
Final Temp of Mixture (C)
Trial 1
5.06
135.11
41.7
162.73
-20
20.5
Trial 2
4.98
169.60
40.2
194.46
-20
24.8
Trial 3
4.72
113.44
19.6
121.81
-15.7 
12.2
Table 2. Data recorded through calorimetry to calculate the heat of fusion of ice.
Equations:
                                                                                           *Lf is the latent heat of fusion
                                *Tf is the final temperature
Calculations: 
Average Calculated Heat of Fusion = 
                                                         = 417.335J/g
Conclusion: In summary, this lab used simple materials and thermochemistry to calculate the heat of fusion of ice. While my average heat of fusion was calculated to be 417.335J/g, and the accepted value is 333J/g, we could possibly attribute errors to the escape of heat from the calorimeter during check to make sure the ice was melted. Also, my measurement of the temperature of ice may have been inaccurate because the ice came from the refrigerator door, and I measured the temperature of the freezer. 
Ethanol Burn Lab
Date: 4/5/21
Purpose: The Ethanol Burn Lab, a preliminary lab to the waste labs that follow, determined how much energy from the burning is not directly transferred to the water in the can. With a known quantity of 1,255kJ per mole of ethanol burned, we can calculate how much of that energy, the percent inefficiency, was not transferred to the water. This will be crucial in the combustion energy calculations in the Combustion Lab. 
Procedure:
1.Mass the ethanol burner and the empty aluminum can.
2.Add approximately 50 ml of tap water to the can and re-mass it so that you are able to calculate the mass of the water. 
3.Take the temperature of the water sample.
4.Using a glass stir rod through the loop of the tab in the can, set the can up so it is resting on a ring clamp above the ethanol burner. 
5.Set the burner on the ring stand, and adjust the height of the ring clamp such that the top of the wick of the ethanol burner is about 2 cm below the can.
6.Light the ethanol burner and allow it to burn for about 30 seconds. Extinguish the burner.
7.Swirl the can to make sure the water is evenly heated then quickly take the waters temperature
8.Re-mass the burner to determine the mass of ethanol burned. 
9.Try to complete 3 trials, then calculate the percent efficiency for each trial and the average of the three trials. 
Data Table:
Mass of ethanol burner (g)
Mass of aluminum can (g)
Mass of can w/ water (g)
Initial temp of water (C)
Final temp of water (C)
Final mass of burner (g)
Trial 1
207.44
14.60
114.41
17.3
32.6
206.98
Trial 2
206.98
14.44
127.03
17.8
27.4
206.67
Trial 3
206.67
14.44
105.55
17.9
29.9
206.38
Table 3. Data recorded to calculate percent efficiency of energy transfer from ethanol burning.
Equations: 
Calculations:
Average Calculated Efficiency of Energy Transfer =  
                                                                                 = 54.29%
Conclusion: My data and calculations resulted in an average of 54.29% efficiency in the energy transfer from the ethanol burner to the water in the can. These results will be instrumental in the next lab in determining how much energy was released from burning our fake human waste.
Waste Dehydration Lab
Date: 4/7/21
Purpose: The Waste Dehydration Lab aims to ascertain the mass lost per gram of wet waste as well and the amount of energy required to oven-dry a sample per gram of wet waste.
Procedure:
1.Weigh the sample of wet waste
2.Put into an oven to dry (5 days)
3.Take out and measure the mass of the sample
4.Return to oven for a second time (2 days)
5.Take out and measure mass as your final measurement
Data Table:
Starting mass of waste (g)
Mass of waste (4/5/21)(g)
Mass of waste (4/7/21)(g)
14.83
5.79
5.68
Table 4. Data recorded to calculate mass lost per gram of wet waste from oven drying.
Equations: 
Calculations: 
Oven drying mass lost per gram wet waste
Energy requirement to oven-dry sample per gram wet waste (assume room temperature waste is 20.0C)
Conclusion: The amount of energy per gram of water required to vaporize the water in our sample of wet waste was 1598.47J/g.
Waste Combustion Lab
Date: 4/7/21
Purpose: The Waste Dehydration Lab aims to ascertain the amount of energy stored in dry waste via combustion and heat energy transfer.
Procedure:
1.Mass your sample of fake waste.
2.Mass the aluminum can.
3.Fill the can about halfway with water.
4.Mass the aluminum can with the water in it.
5.Take the initial temperature of the water with the digital thermometer.
6.Set waste on the paper clip stand, and adjust the height of the ring clamp such that the is about 2 cm below the can.
7.Burn the sample of waste until the flame goes out.
8.Record the final temperature of the water in the can after burning and re-mass the waste.
9.Repeat steps 1 through 7 for a total of three trials.
Data Table:
Mass of waste (g)
Mass of aluminum can (g)
Mass of can w/ water (g)
Initial temp of water (C)
Final temp of water (C)
Final mass of waste (g)
Trial 1
.55
13.16
95.01
16.7
33.4
.15
Trial 2
.56
13.52
94.73
17.1
30.8
.17
Trial 3
.38
13.42
82.34
16.9
30.6
.08
Table 5. Data recorded to calculate free energy produced from burning fake human waste.
Equations and Conversions:
Calculations: 
Mass of dried sample per gram that is combustible
Mass of original wet waste sample that is combustible
Mass of noncombustible material (ash) per gram dry waste
Mass of noncombustible material (ash) per gram wet waste
Combustion energy per gram of dry sample (kJ/g)
Average Combustion Energy (per g dry sample) = 
                                                             
                                                                              = 13.134kJ/g
Theoretical energy per gram of dry sample (kJ/g) using % efficiency from ethanol combustion
Theoretical combustion energy per gram of wet sample (kJ/g)
Free energy calculation per gram wet sampleamount of energy excess available to make electricity after heating wet sample to dryness(in kJ/g)
Conclusion: In conclusion, I calculated that there were 9.266kJ of energy released from burning 1g of wet waste. Since the waste required 1.598kJ energy to dry, we can conclude that there are 7.67kJ/g of wet waste of free energy.
?Create
From where it comes I do not know.
It starts but spinning to and fro;
The line unfolds, theres magic here
The arc then changes, stretches, grows.
From in my head the line I hear
Is calm, is soothing, wracked with fear.
A mystery what shape it takes
I sit, I listen, trust my ear.
Then clear becomes the line, I quake
It came to me, but by mistake?
Enhance it, shape it, break it free
The tremolo begins to shake.
The feeling lovely, splendid, see?
A now completed symphony,
Not by mistake, it came to me, 
Not by mistake, it came to me.
Write-up: 
1) What is the original rhyme scheme and meter?
Rhyme Scheme:
The original rhyme scheme in the poem Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening by Robert Frost is aaba, but each stanzas a is derived from the b of the previous stanza creating this rhyme scheme: 
aaba
bbcb
ccdc
dddd
The aforementioned rhyme scheme is followed for all of the stanzas except the very last
one which had a continued end rhyme scheme.
Meter:
The meter follows an unstressed stressed pattern throughout the poem: u/u/u/u/
2) What are the poetic devices in the original?
Three of the poetic devices in the original poem are as follows:
End rhyme:
Whose woods these are I think I know.
His house is in the village though;
Repetition:
And miles to go before I sleep
And miles to go before I sleep
Alliteration:
The woods are lovely, dark and deep,
3) How you have included the poetic devices in your poem?
End rhyme: 
I follow the rhyme scheme of the original poem in my recreation. For a good deal of the
rhyme, I even rhyme the same sounds as the original poem too.
Repetition:
I use repetition in the same manner as the original poem by placing it in the same part; 
repeat my last line.
Alliteration: I use alliteration at the end of the first line of my fourth stanza. This is 
identical to the original poem, but I use a different consonant sound to repeat.
The feeling lovely, splendid, see?
I use S instead of D, but they serve the same purpose.
?
PART 11,249.523x10-23
PrePOSterous PREposterous prepostERous? Suppresssss. Suppress the preposterous. Why suppress the preposterous when the obstreperous are preposterous only to offer us options-thus, blinking in the blinding binding system. We missed our chance to take a stance, now FIST raised yet not praised for bravery. America perpetuated preposterousness in slavery. Learned nothing? No blushing with shame? Just a game no message? Clearly pained visage yet Daley to dissuade? Beaten, mistreated yet silenced with violence to allow the system to commence. Henceforth the mess will be inevitable, unforgettable yet regrettable as so many DIE. Why? Why die? Death. Life...
	Life is so short, is it not? A sport? Where tuxedoed contortionists pound gavels, not fists to fit the perceived decree of the people in need yet fail to avail the ailing for real? What is real in this world when facades are so thick they seep with the blood of innocent livescreep with the crud of duplicitous lies? Yet through it all there is power. Abused? Misused? The truth unknown. If it was, ever is or will be, undoubtedly proudly suppressed.
	In reality, totality, unscathed by frailty of human ego, we are but animals wild. Compiled together to decide, confide, deride. To ride the wave of ignorance and greed yet not heed the voices questioning those chosen, so supposedly poised. COME TOGETHER! This convention, invention of pretent-ion, is but a collection, in my retrospection, of the defect-ion of representation in this station, so high. Am I high? What does it mean to be high? What doesnt it mean? Does meaning something mean anything at all? Or, at the fall, are we all not so tall? Tall this was but a tale. The tail end making those who prevailed quite pale so pale. Not even there in the room.
	This room where it happened, the crap-end of an era of scares, climbing stairs to nowhere. Yet, somewhere at the same time. Its game time for delegates, so delicate they cant deal with it. The voices and choices of others that smother them with confusion. In response? Forceful diffusion.
Theres a bird outside my window. Its flying, not dying, not even trying to thrive just surviving. America is doing neither. The only option is to enjoy life, not deploy strife. Strife grips the edge of a boat, once floating, now gloating yet sinking as its not thinking of evolving just devolving into chaos. The cha-os, cause, of the need for preposterous-ness. 
Will we ever learn?
?Luisa Grutz-Bianchi
Brian Crawford 
English 200
May 12, 2021
Social expulsion is not an effective form of punishment.
If we look at the current political climate in The United States, one may notice a degree of hostility between those who hold differing viewpoints. This hostility stems from a desire for mass conformation to the commonly held beliefs in the community. Using social expulsion as a form of punishment is far from a new concept, and one can draw upon historical references to further their understanding of this topic. Social exclusion as a form of punishment is when specific people are shunned from a society or community in order to punish or change their views. Readers can see examples of this occurring in both The Scarlet Letter (Nathaniel Hawthorn) and The Crucible (Arthur Miller). In both The Crucible and The Scarlet Letter specific characters experience social isolation as a result of straying from their societies social norms. In the case of The Crucible, a play written by Arthur Miller in 1953, readers can see those who do not assent to the belief of the witchcraft accusations are faced with social expulsion and even death. In contrast, in The Scarlet Letter, which was written by Nathaniel Hawthorne in 1850, readers see the protagonist (Hester) experiencing social expulsion and mockery as punishment for her sin (adultery). In both of these scenarios, using social exclusion as punishment is not effective because in the end of both these books the punished characters either die or they are viewed in an almost angelic light. Furthermore, we also know that the intent behind the social expulsion was confirmation, which was not achieved. With this information we can draw the conclusion that social expulsion is not an effective form of punishment.
If given a cursory glance, one might not notice that The Scarlet Letter shows that social expulsion is not an effective form of punishment, but if the text is meticulously analyzed the presence of this topic will become clearer. In the early stages of the plot in The Scarlet Letter, members of the town strongly advocate to remove Hester from society as she has broken the norms by committing adultery.  Readers can see this directly occurring in the following quote: This woman has brought shame upon us all, and ought to die. Is there not law for it? Truly there is, both in the Scripture and the statute-book (49). Now that Hesters social isolation has been established we can notice how the way people view her begins to change, which conflicts with the previous goal of punishing her.  As a seamstress, Hester makes clothes for everyone (including donating it to the poor).  As a result of showing benevolence towards complete strangers and acting as a benefactor towards them, Hester begins to be described in an angelic manner. For example, in the following quote they are referencing The Scarlet Letter (her punishment) as the sign of an angel instead of the sign of an adulterer. But did your reverence hear of the portent that was seen last night? A great red letter in the sky,--the letter A,--which we interpret to stand for Angel'' (138). In this quote they are directly referring to a meteor, but the parallels between the meteor and the scarlet letter lead one to the conclusion that the meteor is a reference to Hester. We know this because both the meteor and the scarlet letter are described as red and the letter A. Furthermore, we have previously established that the scarlet letter is a big part of Hester's identity and her existence in the Puritian society. The fact that the meteor is included was very intentional, we can assume that it is in place to draw readers attention to that quote and for them to notice the similarities between it and the scarlet letter that Hester wears. This is significant because it shows that even though the stated goal was to punish Hester through social isolation, that this was ineffective. This begs the question of to what extent social expulsion is effective when attempting to punish someone. 
In The Crucible, one of the primary characters (John Procter) attempts to reason with the townspeople and revoke any false accusations that had been made. In response he gets excommunicated, which is very extreme considering that religion is held in high esteem in their community. Furthermore, he is shunned by many members of the community. When Procter gets excommunicated very few people attend, as seen in the following quote. "It cannot be forgot, sir, that when I summoned the congregation for John Proctor's excommunication there were hardly thirty people coming to hear it. That speaks of discontent, I think [...]" This shows that the members of the towns viewpoints of procter have changed, and now instead of viewing him as a friend they are averse towards. Ultimately John Proctor is accused of witchcraft and given a choice. He either can stray from his morality and lie, affirming that these accusations are true, or his life will be in jeopardy.  Ultimately, readers will find that John Proctor chooses to preserve his dignity, as seen in the following quote. Because it is my name! Because I cannot have another in my life! Because I lie and sign myself to lies! Because I am not worth the dust on the feet of them that hang! How may I live without my name? I have given you my soul; leave me my name! This quote clearly shows that John Proctor has made the difficult choice to sacrifice his life in order to preserve his name. In the closing of the book he is hanged for not admitting to practicing witchcraft. These concepts converge to show readers that social expulsion is an ineffective form of punishment because the goal of the town was not his death, in contrast it was mass confirmation to the societal ideals. The fact that killing John Proctor was seen as necessary by the town shows readers that expelling him from society did not work, as he never conformed to the belief of witchcraft. 
Over the course of The Crucible, multiple characters are hanged for not conforming to societal norms and affirming that they did in fact participate in witchcraft. Another example of this occurring is with Rebecca Nurse. In the primary stages of the novel readers can notice Rebecca Nurse attempting to reason with the townspeople regarding the witchcraft allegations, as seen in the following quote verbatim: "I have seen them all through their silly seasons, and when it come on them they will run the Devil bowlegged keeping up with their mischief. I think she'll wake when she tires of it. A child's spirit is like a child, you can never catch it by running after it; you must stand still, and, for love, it will soon itself come back" (27). After further scrutinization of the text, readers will notice that Rebecca Nurse is clearly attempting to reason with the members of the town, and express to them that Abigail's behavior is not witchcraft, but typical defiant teenage behavior. In later stages of the books readers see Parris, Danforth and Hawthorne discussing Rebecca and the other accused members. This can be seen in the following quote. Hear me. Rebecca has not given me a word this three month since she came. [...] and he pleads with them, confess their crimes and save their lives. (116) This quote shows readers that those in power are telling people that if they dont confess to a crime that they will be killed. This, along with alienating those who stray from the popular belief, is clearly a form of attempting to coerce them into confirmation. In the end, Rebecca Nurse is hung as punishment for not confessing to witchcraft. The fact that the original tactics (social exclusion) was not successful in convincing Rebecca Nurse to conform to the largely accepted beliefs of the town, continues to further the precedent that social expulsion is an ineffective form of punishment. 
Both The Crucible and The Scarlet Letter are frequently read by students in highschool. If we were to look at both these stories one may wonder what lessons can be drawn from these books that can be applied to current events. After looking at characters from both The Scarlet Letter and The Crucible one ascertain that social expulsion is not an effective form of punishment. This knowledge can be applicable to current day-to-day life. It is more important than ever to be unified as a nation, and remembering that expelling someone from society is not effective and will ultimately backfire is critical. It is important to provide room for a diverse range of opinions in a society. We have seen three clear examples of what happens if that is not the case in these two books.  Ultimately the message one can draw from these stories is that despite any discrepancies one may have with your own beliefs, that socially isolating in order to coerce them into submission will not result in them conforming to your own ideas/ beliefs. Furthermore, when attempting to express one's beliefs to another, viewing them as an adversary and holding malevolent intent is an incorrect pathway to follow. To reiterate a final time, one can take the lessons drawn from The Crucible and The Scarlet Letter, and apply them to their own lives. Instead of taking the pathway of punishment for differing beliefs, use acceptance and listen to others. If everyone was to take these lessons and implement them into their daily lives the positive changes that we would see will be massive. 
Works Cited 
Hawthorne, Nathaniel, 1804-1864. The Scarlet Letter. New York, N.Y., U.S.A. :Signet Classic, 1988.
New York: Penguin Books. Miller, Arthur, 1915-2005 and C. W. E. Bigsby, The Crucible. New York: Penguin Books, 2003.
?El racismo en el Caribe y Latinoamrica comenz en el primer momento cuando conquistadores espaoles como Hernn Corts y Cristbal Coln llegaron en sus tierras en 1492. Esto es cuando ellos comenzaban a sofocar la cultura de la gente indgena. 
   Con la llegada de conquistadores, inmediatamente la gente indgena fue considerar peor de los espaoles (en los ojos de los espaoles). Los espaoles crearon un sistema casta donde ellos estuvieron lo ms alto, y las personas indgenas en el fondo. Tal vez si los conquistadores no estn lo ms alto, ellos puedan ver como su sistema afectaba a las personas nativas negativamente. Este sistema de casta es el comienzo discriminacin surgir a partir del racismo en el Caribe y Latinoamrica. Adems, muchas personas indgenas fueron esclavos y tenan que trabajar debajo de condiciones horribles - pero aunque las condiciones fueron buenas, teniendo esclavos surgir a partir la raza despus de descubriendo su tierra y explotando las personas no est bien. Podemos ver en este cancin sobre los espaoles en latinoamrica; 
En ese error entregamos / La grandeza del pasado / Y en ese error nos quedamos / 300 aos esclavos  [....]
Se nos qued el maleficio / De brindar al extranjero / Nuestra fe, nuestra cultura / Nuestro pan, nuestro dinero. 
Cuando los espaoles llegaron, no les interesan en aprendiendo la cultura de la gente. Ellos destruyeron toda la identidad de las personas indgenas y explotaron las personas y la tierra. Inventaron un sistema casta y el comienzo del racismo en este continente. 
El racismo en los Estados Unidos es tan arraigado porque he estado presente antes del pas. La idea de sofocando y esclavizando las personas no blancas no es nueva, pero sus consecuencias todava son muy prominentes hoy.         
 
  ?Jacob Omenn
Brian Crawford 
E200
5 May 2021
How Moral Transgressions are Viewed in The Crucible and The Scarlet Letter
Lady Justice is blind because seeing makes her judgements biased. Justice only sees the crimes committed, and does not perceive the people who committed those transgressions. Perceiving someone causes their transgression to be more or less believable, and as such makes the judgement on that transgression biased for or against that person. Someone who has stolen a cookie from the cookie jar will be suspected of stealing a cookie if one is found missing from that jar. That person has been perceived as committing a transgression, but only because they previously transgressed by stealing a cookie from the jar. However, a person who consistently admonishes everyone who steals cookies from the jar wont be suspected when a cookie is stolen. That person wont be suspected because they are perceived as being unable to commit the transgression of stealing the cookie. This difference in judgement based on perception is applicable to both real life and fiction. For example, in the book The Scarlet Letter, and the play The Crucible, both of which are set in puritan Massachusetts, authority figures make judgements based on their perceptions of supposed transgressors, regardless of whether or not a tangible transgression was even committed. In The Scarlet Letter, the protagonist Hester is given the scarlet letter instead of death, and Dimmesdale, her paramour is still seen as a saint despite admitting to adultery, a sin. In The Crucible, Danforth, a judge, believes that anyone contradicting what he says has committed a crime, and punishes them as such. Social outcasts in The Crucible are perceived as witches with very little evidence. The punishments of those who transgressed in The Scarlet Letter and The Crucible are based solely on the perception of the transgressor by the authority figures, not the transgression itself.
	The perception of Hesters condition by the authority figures in The Scarlet Letter causes her to receive the Scarlet Letter instead of death. The authority figures perceive Hester as a woman who was easily tempted to sin by her situation, so they give her clemency. When Hester is being released from prison, some townspeople outside the prison comment that This woman has brought shame upon us all, and ought to die. Is there not law for it? Truly there is, both in the Scripture and the statute-book(Hawthorne 49). Here Hester ought to die as there is a law for it[...] both in the Scripture and statute-book. However, Hester is receiving the benevolent punishment of the Scarlet letter instead of death despite violating both a law in the town and a law in the Scripture. If Hester should receive death, why doesnt she? When Chillingworth first enters the town, he is told this about why Hester was given the Scarlet Letter,  Now sir, our Massachusetts magistracy, bethinking themselves that this woman is youthful and fair, and doubtless was strongly tempted to her fall; - and that, moreover, as it most likely, her husband may be at the bottom of the sea.(Hawthorne 58) Hester was given the Scarlet Letter as a punishment instead of death because she was strongly tempted to fall, and that her husband may be at the bottom of the sea. Instead of death, the Scarlet Letter represents the shame Hester holds for committing adultery, as is said by Governor Bellingham in this quote, Woman, it is thy badge of shame! (Hawthorne 98) Hester is given the Scarlet Letter because the authority figures view her as being strongly tempted to fall, and as such change their punishment of her transgression from death to the Scarlet Letter. 
	The Authority figures perception of Dimmesdale also causes them to deny reality when he transgresses. At the end of the book, Dimmesdale reveals that he was the one who committed adultery with Hester. However, nobody in the town thinks poorly of him after his reveal and subsequent death. In the epilogue of the book, the narrator states  It is singular, nevertheless, that certain persons,[..] by their report, had his dying words acknowledged, nor even remotely implied, any, the slightest connection, on his part, with the guilt for which Hester Prynne had so long worn the Scarlet Letter. According to these highly respectable witnesses.(Hawthorne 223-224) The description of the witnesses as highly respectable shows that they are authority figures because when authority figures are together, they are often referred to as respectable. Normally these stately authority figures would condemn anyone who publicly admitted to adultery and then died, but in Dimmesdales case the authority figures still view him as a saintly figure. Throughout the book, the narrator states that Dimmesdale is viewed in a very high regard by both the authority figures and the townspeople. For example, when describing Dimmesdale, the narrator says His fame, though still on its upward slope, already overshadowed the soberer reputations of his fellow-clergymen, eminent as several of them were,(Hawthorne 123) and that Mr. Dimmesdale, the young divine,[...]was considered by his more fervent admirers, as little less than a heaven-ordained apostle.(Hawthorne 105) Both of these quotes show that Dimmesdale was not only considered close to a heaven-ordained apostle, but was also the most famous clergyman at his young age. This perception of Dimmesdale did not change after the adultery, with the narrator saying He had told his hearers that he was altogether vile, a viler companion of the vilest, the worst of sinners, an abomination, a thing of unimaginable iniquity;[...]They heard it all, and did but reverence him the more. [...] The godly youth! said they among themselves. The saint on earth!(Hawthorne 125) Even after Dimmesdale starts calling himself a sinner, he is still extolled as the saint on earth, and his fame continues to rise. Due to his perception as a holy figure, and his incredible fame, no punitive action was taken despite Dimmesdale admitting to adultery. 
	In The Crucible, Danforth, a judge, perceives anyone challenging the narrative that there are witches in Salem in a negative light. This perception causes Danforth to disregard actual evidence against the trials, and instead causes him to support Abbys rampant unsupported accusations of witchcraft. Danforth does this because he is averse to showing any sign of the witchcraft trials possibly being in the wrong. When Danforth is about to hang several prominent figures for witchcraft, he is petitioned to stop by multiple people. Danforth then responds by saying Now hear me, and beguile yourselves no more. I will not receive a single plea for pardon or postponement. Them that will not confess will hang. [...] Postponement now speaks a floundering on my part; reprieve or pardon must cast doubt upon the guilt of them that died till now.(Miller 119) Danforth will not postpone the hanging because that speaks to a floundering on his part, and that reprieve or pardon must cast doubt upon the guilt of them that died till now. Danforth does not want to be seen as wavering on the issue of witchcraft, and as such is taking an indomitable position against any who oppose the complete guilt of those accused of witchcraft. For example, when told that there is fear of the court in Salem, Danforth responds with Then there is a prodigious guilt in the country. (Miller 91) Danforth immediately associates any negative feeling towards the court as an admission of guilt. He perceives these people going against the court as if they have already transgressed in some way, and as such should be punished. Due to this perception, Danforth uses his powers as judge to throw Giles in jail for contempt of court rather than listen to his accusation against Putnam, and makes an incredibly biased judgement in favor of Abby when there is no real proof of witchcraft. When Abby screams about there being a bird present that is somehow harming her, Danforth not only intimidates Mary Warren by saying You have seen the Devil, you have made a compact with Lucifer, have you not?(Miller 108) while she is being accused of witchcraft by the other girls, but also refusing to listen to Hale when Hale says I see nothing, Your Honor!(Miller 109) in regards to the bird. Danforth listens to what Abby, who supports the idea that the witch trials are real, says, but won't listen to Hale, who goes against the veracity of the trials, when Hale contradicts Abbys point. Danforth also intimidates Mary Warren, who is trying to prove that the girls have been telling lies about there being witches, by suggesting that she is a witch as well. Danforth does nothing of this sort to Abby or the other girls when they claim someone is a witch. Danforths perception of those who go against the court as already transgressing and those who go with the court as innocent causes him to punish innocent people as if they had committed a crime, and causes him to believe the words of anyone who goes with the court, regardless of whether or not those people are lying or have transgressed in some way themselves. 
	The original people implicated in practicing witchcraft in The Crucible are all perceived as social outcasts, and this perception causes them to be the first people accused of witchcraft. When Parris, Hathorne and Danforth are talking about the postponement of the hangings of Rebecca Nurse and John Proctor, Parris tells Hathorne Judge Hathome - it were another sort that hanged till now. Rebecca Nurse is no Bridget that lived three year with Bishop before she married him. John Proctor is not Isaac Ward that drank his family to ruin.(Miller 117) Parris then tells Danforth I would to God it were not so, Excellency, but these people have great weight yet in the town.(Miller 118) The authority figures, namely Parris, Danforth, and Hathorne, perceived the earlier accused as witches because they didnt have great weight yet in the town. Not having this great weight means that those outcasts were disreputable, or not held in high esteem by most people. This lack of influence is due to the actions of the early accused, which were perceived as bad. Parris equates Bridget living three year with Bishop before she married him,  to Issac Ward that drank his family to ruin. These actions are examples of social transgressions, or actions which cause the person committing them to be seen as a social outcast. These social outcasts are perceived witches because they have already gone against society once with their social transgressions. Their social transgressions make perceiving the social outcasts as witches easier because committing witchcraft is also going against the society.
	There are vehement examples of perception being the only thing that matters when making a judgement in real life as well. During the Vietnam War, a platoon of American soldiers slaughtered 500 South Vietnamese citizens, which is a war crime. 25 people were convicted once this was found out. However, every person who took part in the slaughter was given a shorter sentence than they should have, and even that shortened time remaining was waived, because all of the convicts were released early. These murderers werent perceived as war criminals, for they were in Vietnam fighting for their country. There are also examples of people receiving much harsher punishments solely because of how they are perceived, and not because of what they may or may not have done. In 2021 in Virginia, A black lieutenant was pepper sprayed, dragged from his car, and handcuffed by police officers solely because he was black. The reason given for this treatment was because his temporary license plate was improperly set up. The plate itself was actually correctly set up. Regardless, the lieutenant should not have been pepper sprayed, abused, and handcuffed for a single traffic violation. The lesson these texts and examples can teach us about addressing perceived transgressions in 2021 is to both look at the context around the transgression and the transgression itself. The personality of the person who supposedly committed the transgression does not matter. As these texts show, even those who appear to be a saint on earth can commit sin.?Kyle Gustafson
9/18/20
Final Reflection
The digital art form I enjoy the most is photography. Some of my favorites activities are traveling and being in nature, both of which pair very well with photography. While I dont have a good camera, I love learning about how to take the best photos I can with the tools I have. Part of this is the actual composition of the photo, how I take it at the time, and part of it is editing them afterwards. I used to think of editing as cheating in a way, but now I realized that it is simply bringing back the detail that the camera did not come close to capturing. I loved taking photos before I took this course, and I like it even better afterwards.
	The forms of digital art that I had to learn the most for were probably video/audio and stop motion. This is because I have practically no experience with filming, aside from painfully cringy iMovies from when I was a kid. Knowing the elements of photography made it easier, but I still experienced much trial and error with positioning, composition, and other elements. 
	The digital art forms that are less appealing to me are graphic design and stop motion animation. For graphic design, I dont enjoy always thinking about rules such as balance, direction, hierarchy, and more. Photography appeals to me partly because of the abstract nature of it; a good photo is of something that inspires you, or you think is cool. In contrast, graphic design has some abstract elements, but there are many rules you need to follow to have good graphic design. As for stop motion animation, I just dont really enjoy the somewhat tedious monotony of taking picture after slightly different picture (okay, maybe Im being just a bit dramatic). 
	While I dont particularly enjoy graphic design, the project I am most proud of is my personal branding portfolio. One reason for this is that I worked very hard on it to get a result that I felt represented my personality, and I feel that I succeeded. Another reason is that I learned a lot about graphic design, whether or not I completely enjoy it.
	I think that the digital media skill I will take most advantage of in the future is photography, because I love doing it. However, other skills, particularly personal branding and graphic design, will most likely come in handy later in my education and career. For these reasons, I am very glad I learned the skills.?Atomic Absorption and Emission are part of the action of when an electron moves around the electron cloud of an atom in a specific way. An electron generally resides in a specific place of the atom in relation to the nucleus, we call this the electrons Ground State. But if an electron absorbs energy, it gets excited and moves to a different place in the atom, and we call the place it ends up its Excited State. An electron moves from its Ground State to its Excited State when it absorbs energy, that action is Atomic Absorption. Then, when an electron moves back from its Excited State to its Ground State it releases energy in the form of light, this action is called Atomic Emission. 
A flame test is the process of putting certain chemicals in contact with flames, and using the flame color to identify certain components of the chemical. When the chemicals come in contact with the flames, the fire excites the electrons in the atoms of certain elements which leads to the process of Atomic Absorption. Then when the electrons go back to their ground state in the process of Atomic Emission, energy in the form of light is released, which changes the color of the flame. The color of the flame is dependent on the amount of energy released in Atomic Emission, which is based on the distance between the ground state and the excited state of an electron. In different atoms, the distance an electron travels from its ground state to its excited state differs, and the distance can be measured in how many energy levels it has traveled. The color of light released, and thus the flame color is based on the amount of energy released and the amount of energy levels an electron is moving, when it returns to its ground state. This is why for different chemicals, the fire is different colors.
When in contact with a flame, different elements burn different colors, copper makes the flame green, sodium orange, barium yellow, calcium red. Other elements make different colors, like potassium which makes the flame a purple or lilac color, strontium which makes the flame red, and lithium which makes the flame pink. When the three different flavors of Gatorade were burned (Riptide Rush, Lemon-Lime, and Arctic Blitz), they all made the flame appear orange. And from our flame tests with the ionic solutions, we know that sodium compounds, when in contact with a flame, make the flame appear orange. Which is why we can hypothesize that the ionic compound that the three flavors contained was one that involves sodium.\
In our flame tests we found that the element copper makes the flame green, sodium makes it orange, barium makes it yellow, calcium and strontium make it red, potassium makes the flame a light purple color, and that lithium makes the flame pink. And from our flame tests with the Gatorade drinks we found that all three flavors of Gatorade that we tested made the flame appear orange. Because of our observations of the different flame tests with ionic compounds and the information we could conclude about certain elements from them, we can infer what element was in the Gatorade drinks. Because we learned that ionic compounds that included sodium made the flame appear orange like the Gatorade did, we can make an educated guess that whatever ionic compound or compounds that the three Gatorade drinks had in them included sodium.
?Elizabeth Pham
Brian Crawford
E200
5/26/2021
Our experiences and the way we are raised often create our prejudices and define our moral transgressions. We can learn from The Crucible and The Scarlet Letter that those who exercise the authority to punish moral transgressions should be aware of their own moral blindness. As humans, we should be weary of the certainty of our own rightness of our own values that can create prejudice and intolerance which can affect the way we treat others who are different from ourselves. In extreme cases, we can treat others less than human because of our own moral blindness. We can see this in the religious leaders of the play and book where they are given absolute power by the church. This intransigent power corrupts them, making them uncompromising and closed-minded; their dogmatic faith makes them believe they are doing the right thing when in reality they end up doing more harm than good. They derive their authority from the townpeoples fear of the devil and divine retribution. Moreover, both of these societies are morally blind when it comes to the treatment of women and the imbalances of power. The punishments are usually placed upon women, and these women only get a say in things if their husbands advocate for them.  In 2021, those who are given power must be placed under limitations from the sources of their authority. Their authority must come from the consent of those over whom they exercise power-- unlike Puritan Salem/England, that power must not come from fear or torture, but from the reason and integrity of the individual.
As we look at the moral transgressions defined in The Crucible and The Scarlet Letter -- witchcraft and adultery -- we view ourselves as enlightened because we live in a society that is not controlled by religious dogmatism--as separation of church and state is implied in the Bill of Rights. We find that these Puritan moral transgressions are risible in a sense because it seems ridiculous to us today that someone would get hanged for being accused of witchcraft, or be publicly shamed for committing adultery. In The Crucible, we can see those in power -- Danforth, Hawthorne, Parris -- having an indomitable belief of righteousness when in reality, they are blinded by their rigid faith. In Act One (an overture), Arthur Miller makes a statement about Puritan societys dogmatism and religious fanaticism: They believed, in short, that they held in their steady hands the candle that would light the world. We have inherited this belief, and it has helped and hurt us (5 Miller). Danforth and Hale are so convinced that they are doing the right thing by rooting out witches, to the point where they were hanging innocent people. Their candle that would light the world was the tragic event of the Salem witch trials hoping to cleanse the town and light the world. In the end, the witch trials do more harm than good, letting suspicion and personal vengeance run the town rampant. We can also see this certainty of rightness in The Scarlet Letter as Chillingworth tortures Dimmesdale, justifying the punishment as divine retribution. This diabolical agent had the Divine permission, for a season, to burrow into the clergymans intimacy, and plot against his soul (112 Hawthorne). Chillingworth is blinded by the fact that he believes if he exposes Dimmesdales secret of adultery, he would be doing good for the community; he tortures Dimmesdale excessively to the point where Chillingworths motive changes to personal vengeance. When we look at the history of America, there are many instances in which we believe we are doing the right thing when in reality we are doing more harm. American exceptionalism (or white savior complex) is a great example of this as we colonized and committed genocide against the Native Americans. Our moral blindness predominantly applies today when it comes to the issues of racism and discrimination.
Power tends to corrupt. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. Lord Acton. Humans are venal, so when people are given power, they usually end up being corrupted by it, but absolute power will definitely be abused and corrupted as it can prevent us from seeing the options that will best benefit society; this absolute power contributes to our moral blindness because pride and certainty of rightness averts us from reflecting upon our actions when offered this type of power. In these two narratives, we often see those who are given power ending up corrupted by it. In a theocracy, their (people with power often supported by the church, i.e. priests and magistrates) legitimacy usually stems from the consent of the governed and fear within the congregation. Those in positions of power create a narrative to keep their authority by instilling fear within the community.  Parris, for example, is given intransigent power by the church and controls the town with the fear of the devil. When Proctor is discussing with Reverend Hale about Elizabeth, Proctors wife, Proctor questions the power of Parris. Hale then responds by saying I must say it, Mr.Proctor; that is not for you to decide. The mans ordained, therefore the light of God is in him. (62 Miller). Parris was officious and given intransigent power simply because he was ordained; therefore, no one should question his authority. Not being able to question the legitimacy and the authority of the officials of the town shows how power corrupts. Those who are able to define and punish moral transgressions should not be corrupted as it can make the situation worse. In The Scarlet Letter, we can see Dimmesdales intransigence as he refuses to be Pearls father and admit that he had committed adultery. His intransigent power prevents him from revealing his sin to the church and repenting. He feels as if he cannot abandon his guise of this righteous and holy minister because of the power he was granted. I should long ago have thrown off these garments of mock holiness, and shown myself to mankind as they will see me at the judgement-seat (167 Hawthorne). Dimmesdale has a polluted conscience from the power given to him by the church which prevents him from revealing his sin of adultery for seven years. He struggles to see that this sin has corrupted his soul and he continues to lie to himself and his congregation. Today, we must be aware of those whom we entrust power to and the weight of that power. We should not choose future leaders based on their standing within society, but because of their integrity and their unfeigned capacity to show tolerance, compassion, and clemency.  
Women are often held reprehensible and left to carry the burden of these punishments placed upon them by magistrates and religious officials. Puritan society depicted in these two books show how women are disregarded as second class citizens. Also, none of the women in these rigidly sexist and patriarchal societies had the power of Dimmesdale or Danforth. Abigail in The Crucible had the power she had only because she was backed by the powerful men of the town -- Danforth, Hawthorne, Parris, and Hale. When she goes around accusing women of witchcraft, no one questions the legitimacy of it. Even Rebecca Nurse is implicated of witchcraft, a saint not capable of causing harm to anyone, and barely any of the people with power believed she was innocent. Proctor and Elizabeths relationship is another example of the patriarchy as Proctor expects Elizabeth to be submissive to him. The stage directions portray her cautiousness and how diffident she is around Proctor She is watching him from the table as he stands there absorbing the night, It is as though she would speak but cannot. Instead, now, she takes up his plate and glass and fork and goes with them to the basin(49 Miller). When interacting with her husband, all she hopes to do is please him. The few times she decides to speak up, she chooses her words carefully, making sure she does not anger Proctor. Nathaniel Hawthornes portrayal of women differs a bit from Arthur Millers, as women in The Scarlet Letter are given the burden of redeeming the sin of the world.  Be it accepted as a proof that all was not corrupt in this poor victim of her own frailty, and mans hard law, that Hester Prynne yet struggled to believe that no fellow-mortal was guilty like herself. (79 Hawthorne). Hester wore her scarlet letter on her chest as a reminder of her sin, guilt, and triumph -- represented through the deft golden embroidery around the scarlet letter. Pearl was also a symbol of the redemption of humankinds sin while being an outcast to society. The magistrates and religious leaders of these Puritan communities were blinded by their goal of punishing moral transgressions that they did not realize the imbalances of power when it came to women. Even today, we have not been able to fully address the issues of equality in America because of our stereotypes and the extant patriarchal expectations of women. 
When we look back at these Puritan societies in Salem, we can take the lesson of moral blindness which branches out to intransigent power, abusing fear to maintain power, and the patriarchy and imbalance of power. Moral blindness is still a major issue in our society today as we live in a country with many discrepancies when it comes to different ideologies, religions, cultures, and people. We believe that we are enlightened and better than these Puritan societies because we don't live in a society based on a dogmatic faith or a theocracy. Are we really better than the Puritans if we still use fear and propaganda to demonize groups that are different from us? America still faces issues of discrimination, racism, and prejudices of all sorts. During 2021 and the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been a recent surge of anti-Asian sentiment. Disinformation and ignorance has created a greater divide between people, and has encouraged and influenced acts of violence towards Asians. Our previous president referred to Covid-19 as the China virus and Wuhan virus, creating the narrative that all Asian people were carrying the virus. Virulent statements filled with fear and prejudice from the President instilled fear within communities which contributed to the spike of racism and hate-crimes towards Asians. Some of the people who commit these crimes do it out of fear or hatred, blinded by a message from a racist president and the media. Moving forward, we need to show tolerance, and compassion to those whom we may not agree with so we can obviate the tragedy of the Salem witch trials or the public shame in The Scarlet Letter. We should be weary of being certain of our own rightness, other dogmas, and religious fanaticism which all contribute to our moral blindness. Works Cited
Dalberg-Acton, John. "Lord Acton Quote Archive." Acton Institute, 2021, www.acton.org/research/lord-acton-quote-archive. Accessed 26 May 2021.
?Camilo Tamayo-Rousseau
Professor Brian Crawford
E200
12 May 2021
Moral Transgressions and Punishment: An Analysis/Explication of The Crucible and The Scarlet Letter
	Trevor Noah once said, society is a contract. Its a contract that we sign as human beings amongst each other (Noah 8:40-8:44). This contract refers to a set of rules that reflect the common morals and beliefs of a society. These ruleswhether implicit or explicitdescribe what actions members of society can and cannot do. When an individual violates this set of rules by doing something that society perceives as wrong, this individual also violates societys morals (a moral transgression). When an individual commits a moral transgression, they are often punished. Many punishments, such as imprisonment, involve society socially isolating individuals. However, social isolation can have negative effects on an individual, which may also impact other people. In Arthur Millers play The Crucible, negative effects can be seen in many characters. In particular, isolation affects Abigail Williams, the 17-year-old orphan who has an affair with John Proctor, and Thomas Putnam, a main accuser of witchcraft. As a result, they (Abigail and Thomas) commit moral transgressions. In Nathaniel Hawthornes book The Scarlet Letter, social exclusion affects several characters such as Roger Chillingworth who tortures Arthur Dimmesdale, a potent and lauded religious figure. This torturing is regarded as a transgression. The characters stated above reveal an important pattern about society: social isolation causes individuals to commit moral transgressions.  Because of this, moral transgressions shouldnt be addressedin current societiesthrough forced social isolation.
In the society of The Crucible, one individualBetty Parrislies in her bed not moving at the beginning of the play. There is a rumor of witchcraft and Reverend Parris wants to know if Betty (his daughter) is a victim of witchcraft. Parris interrogates Abigail to determine whether the girls committed witchcraft. However, he is not convinced that Abigail is telling the truth about the situation, and Parris thinks that she is compromising his reputation. He then begins to question Abigails reputation and says, And yet it has troubled me that you are now seven month out of their house, and in all this time no other family has ever called for your service (Miller 11). Here, Parris describes Abigails role in society. Her only purpose is to provide service to families for short periods of time. Even then, no other family wants Abigail. Abigail later says, they want slaves, not such as I (Miller 11). She (Abigail) is seen as a slave who is inferior to everyone else. This shows that society alienates Abigail. The effect of this social exclusion can be seen when Abigail begs John Proctor to resume their past relationship. Abigail says, I never knew what pretense Salem was, I never knew the lying lessons I was taught by all these Christian women and their covenanted men! And now you bid me tear the light out of my eyes? I will not, I cannot (Miller 22). Abigail claims that Salem has pretense and everyone is lying. She claims that Proctor put light in her eyeswhich is a symbol of understanding and intelligenceas opposed to the darkness which society previously put in her. This darkness refers to her experience of isolation and exclusion. Abigail also mentions that she was taught lying lessons. Here, she alludes to herself deceiving the village to seek revenge for the darkness that the village put in her. Later, Abigail does deceive the village (by accusing and killing innocent people) because she is bereft of inclusion. When the issue is brought to court, Francis says to judge Danforth, [the girls] are all deceiving you. Then Danforth is shocked (Miller 80). Since the girls, who are led by Abigail, are truthfully accused of deceiving judge Danforth in court, Abigail has stepped over society's legal line. Also, Danforth is shocked, which shows the severity of Abigail's transgression. So, by making her inferior, society isolates Abigail which causes Abigails hate for society. Ultimately, this hate causes Abigail to become a transgressor. What this chain of events reveals is the importance of maintaining a strong connection with ones family. Abigail has a dearth of familiar connections, which leads her to commit many lamentable actions and cause chaos. If Abigail had had a strong, familiar connection with someone, the violent and selfish transgressions that she commits would likely not have occurred. So, the play (The Crucible) reveals the importance of maintaining a familiar relationship.
Also, at the beginning of the play, after Parris interrogates Abigail about her relationship with witchcraft, Mr. Putnam enters the scene to help determine if witchcraft is occuring. He (Putnam) immediately jumps to the conclusion that witchcraft is certainly happening and is having an important effect on the village. Then, we are given a backstory about Putnams life. When he previously ran for office, he undoubtedly felt it poor payment when he wasnt elected. This is because he regards himself as the intellectual superior of the village (Miller 13-14). His sense of superiority reveals that Thomas Putnam mentally separates himself from the rest of the village by thinking that he is the only smart person. This separation from others leads Putnam to feel that his own name and the honor of his family [has] been smirched by the village, and he mean[s] to right matters however he [can]. Here, he feels hatred for the rest of the village and wants to seek revenge however he [can]. This vindictive, belligerent, and non-amicable nature that he develops is why it is not surprising to find that so many accusations against people are in the handwriting of Thomas Putnam. Putnam also encourages his daughter to falsely accuse people at the most opportune junctures of the trials in order for him to kill people and gain their land (Miller 14). This transgression and Putnams lack of integrity are caused by the isolation that he creates. What this reveals is the importance of understanding others, both emotionally and ideologically. If Putnam understood and felt sympathy for more peopleinstead of isolating/distancing himself by thinking he is superiorhe likely would not have killed or tried to kill anyone.
In The Scarlet Letter, when Chillingworth returns to the village after being physically distant, he sees Hester being pilloried. He (Chillingworth) seeks to develop an understanding of the situation and he asks a townsman to reveal the reason why Hester is being pilloried. Chillingworth says, I am a stranger, and have been a wanderer, sorely against my will. I have met with grievous mishaps by sea and land, and have been long held in bonds among the heathen-folk, to the southward; and am now brought hither by this Indian, to be redeemed out of my captivity (Hawthorne 57). Chillingworth is a stranger to the village and does not know anyone besides Hester. While he was a wanderer, he was always a heathen. When he is finally set free in the village, Chillingworth seeks to integrate himself by finding the person who he thinks will care for him and love him: Hester Prynne. However, when Chillingworth sees that Hester, his wife, had a baby and committed adultery, his look [becomes] keen and penetrative. A writhing horror [twists] itself across his features (Hawthorne 56). He realizes that Hester doesnt actually love or care for him and that he will remain socially isolated without Hester. This realization affects Chillingworth by making his thoughtswhich are metaphorically referred to as his facial featureskeen, penetrative, and twisted with a writhing horror. This quote foreshadows the cathexis that Chillingworth later develops for Arthur Dimmesdale where he (Chillingworth) becomes extremely mentally involved and obsessed with Dimmesdale. Chillingworth [digs] into the poor clergymans [Dimmesdales] heart, like a miner searching for gold (Hawthorne 113). In foreshadowing this cathexis, the quote subtly relates Chillingworths social isolation with the cathexis which suggests a correlation between isolation and the cathexis. This evil cathexis that Chillingworth developsas a result of his isolationis soon noticed by the rest of the town. As the text says, it grew to be a widely diffused opinion that the Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale, like many other personages of especial sanctity, in all ages of the Christian world, was haunted either by Satan himself, or Satans emissary, in the guise of old Roger Chillingworth [...] The people looked, with an unshaken hope, to see the minister come forth out of the conflict, transfigured with the glory which he would unquestionably win (Hawthorne 112). The townspeople think Dimmesdale is a person of especial sanctity. They (the townspeople) know that Dimmesdale is haunted in the guise of old Roger Chillingworth. The peoples hope is unshaken that Dimmesdale would finish the conflict transfigured with the glory that he would unquestionably win. This widely diffused, complete confidence towards Dimmesdale, reveals the peoples attitude towards Chillingworth and his actions. The townspeople all agree that Dimmesdale is in the right while Chillingworth is in the wrong. This shows that Chillingworth has committed moral transgressions that stem from his cathexis for Dimmesdale and ultimately Chillingworths isolation. This chain of events reveals the importance of not having many expectations. Chillingworths downward spiral is partly caused by his expectation that Hester would love him when he returns to the town. However, when Hester doesnt love him, Chillingworth is completely devastated and the situation gets progressively worse. If Chillingworth did not have this expectation, he wouldnt have gone down the same, evil path.
No matter the situation or an individual's evilness, however, one thing that is common in human beings is judgment. In fact, it is natural to judge others (Forsythe, Francesca). However, when one judges someone elsein a negative wayone often avoids and distances themselves from that person. While this may seem negligible, small actions can augment someones negative thoughts. Individuals who are victims of isolation can develop a negative mental state which reflects all of the actions that have harmed them. The individual might then seek to alleviate their pain by, for example, inflicting their pain onto others. In The Scarlet Letter, Pearl [is] a born outcast of the infantile world and the town completely isolates her. Pearl seeks to relieve the painwhich was caused by the isolationin many ways. For example, If the children gathered about her, as they sometimes did, Pearl would grow positively terrible in her puny wrath, snatching up stones to fling at them (84). The isolation and suffering that was inflicted onto Pearl by the town cause Pearl to grow positively terrible. Pearl inflicts her pain onto the children and because of this, the children [have] a vague idea of something outlandish, unearthly, or at variance with ordinary fashions in the mother and the child; and therefore [scorn] them in their hearts (84). Here, we can discern the beginning of a long chain of infliction caused by the isolation and judgment of Pearl. In real life, one small act of judgment can also help cause a long chain of infliction. For example, at lunchtime in school, if someone is eating alone at a table, one might judge this person and think that they have no friends and therefore are a weird person. This judgment could lead one to cause isolation from that person and prevent future interactions. Sensing this exclusion, the person that was alone might begin to build up negative emotions inside themselves. Eventually, to get rid of these emotions, the person might get angry at others, interrupt in class, or disobey which would spread negative emotions, and ultimately a chain of infliction would occur. So, next time we sense ourselves judging someone else, we must realize the isolation that we are causing and its potential effects on others.Works Cited
Forsythe, Francesca. Why Judging Others Is Our Natural Instinct, Harvard Psychologist Explains. Learning Mind, www.learning-mind.com/judging-others/. 
Noah, Trevor. George Floyd, Minneapolis Protests, Ahmaud Arbery & Amy Cooper | The Daily Social Distancing Show. Youtube, uploaded by The Daily Show with Trevor Noah, 29 May 2020, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v4amCfVbA_c.  
?Stella Zwingli
Brian Crawford
American Literature
27 May 2021
The Intersection Between Perceived Moral Transgressions and Selfishness
Many people struggle with selfish impulses. Not keeping the best piece of cake for yourself, or giving up your spot in line for someone else to take your place, is a hard thing to do. These selfish impulses come from humans' deep-rooted survival instincts. When safe spaces and food were not as available as they are today for many people, the person who focused on securing resources for themselves and put their own needs above others was the most likely to survive. And although many people no longer have to fight to obtain enough resources to survive, our instincts connected to survival still motivate many to selfishly act. The writers Nathaniel Hawthorne and Arthur Miller both explore this concept of selfishness in their respective works, The Scarlet Letter and The Crucible. Both of the pieces specifically investigate how selfishness affects a person's sense of morality. The Scarlet Letter and The Crucible are both set in the town of Salem, which was part of the Puritan Massachusetts Bay Colony. The Scarlet Letter is set in the middle of the 17th century, whereas The Crucible is set around 40 years later at the end of the century. The Scarlet Letter follows Hester Pryne, a woman who committed adultery, during the seven years after she is sentenced by the town's religious figures to wear a scarlet letter A on her clothes, and become a pariah. The Crucibles main character is also someone who has committed adultery. But, in the play, the main character, John Proctor, does not get found out as an adulterer until the end. Proctor becomes involved in the town witch hunt that was based on the real Salem Witch Trials that took place in Salem, Massachusetts in 1692 and 1693. In the play, a group of teenage girls, led by a girl named Abigail, goes to court and accuses many of the townspeople of being witches. Many people are hanged because of accusations that have no real evidence supporting them. The Crucible both demonstrates the chaos and virulence of the witch trials and tells a tale of townspeople who have abandoned their morals in the face of an opportunity for self-gain. The Scarlet Letter also has a similar secondary meaning. The book displays the evolution of the townspeople's view of Hester, a sinner, and a social outcast. And also shows how Reverend Dimmesdale goes against his religious moral obligations as a minister to protect his job and social rank by withholding the information that he was the person that committed adultery with Hester. Both of these pieces of literature express that selfishness and self-preserving behaviors can cause individuals to deviate from their societies moral code, and possibly commit a transgression against that code. 
Characters in The Scarlet Letter and The Crucible are willing to commit acts that disobey their societies moral codes to protect themselves and put their reputations above the lives of many others. Both John Proctor and Reverend Dimmesdale withhold crucial information from their entire towns because they do not want the townspeople to know that they have committed adultery. In John Proctor's case, he doesn't tell the town that the accusations of witchcraft are fake and that the girls are lying about being tormented by witches. He conceals this information because Abigail, the leader of the group of girls, is the one who told him. Abigail is the person that has committed adultery with him, and he fears that if he tells the town that she told him, he will have to explain the nature of their relationship. Because Proctor is married, a close relationship with a seventeen-year-old girl who had been his household worker would have seemed suspicious to the town and been scrutinized during the court proceedings. Proctor is apprehensive that his act of adultery will be discovered, destroying his social status and alienating him from the town. So when he is given a chance to reveal the information about the accusations, it is not his moral compass that drives him to tell, but his wife Elizabeth's prompting. Reverend Hale, one of the town's religious figures, comes to their house because Elizabeth has been accused of being a witch. And during a discussion about the accusations, Elizabeth says to Proctor,
ELIZABETH, with a note of desperation: I think you must tell him, John.
HALE: Whats that?
ELIZABETH, restraining a call: Will you tell him?
Slight pause. Hale looks questioningly at John.
PROCTOR, with difficulty: I -- I have no witness and cannot prove it, except my word be taken. But I know the childrens sickness has naught to do with witchcraft.                    
(64)
Proctor is reluctant to share what he has come to learn from Abigail, and shares only when forced to by his wife. Many townspeople are taken into court to be questioned while being threatened with hanging and have their reputations ruined because of the girl's accusations. But Proctor is still reticent to speak out against the injustices because of the fear of his reputation being expunged. He puts his social status above the lives of innocent people and their families. And although he ends up sharing Abigail's secret, it only after his wife was accused of being a witch and after being put on the spot by Elizabeth, that he confesses with difficulty. 
Reverend Dimmesdale from The Scarlet Letter also withholds crucial information from his town to protect his reputation. He withholds the information that he was the one who committed adultery with Hester. Near the beginning of the book, when Hester is sentenced for her acts of adultery that are perceived as a sin by her town, Dimmesdale himself calls for the person who committed the act with her to come forward. At the time Dimmesdale doesnt speak out, and after that day he continues to keep his involvement with Hester a secret. He is plagued by guilt, but he never breaks his silence on the issue for seven years. At the end of his seven years of hiding, Dimmesdale talks to Hester about his experience as a person who has sinned unbeknownst to the townspeople and churchgoers he interacts with. He says to her, Thou little knowest what a relief it is, after the torment of a seven years' cheat, to look into an eye that recognized me for what I am! (167) Dimmesdale is followed by the guilt of his actions throughout the seven years that he kept his act of adultery a secret, but he still kept his silence. He knows that if he confesses he will become a disgrace in the eyes of the town, lose all the town's esteem, and get shunned for hiding his sin. Because of his fear, he lies to the townspeople, and as an important religious figure in the town, he goes against all he stands for. Although the information Dimmedsdale withheld would have not obviated unjust deaths like information John Proctor concealed, he still lets his true nature be covered by the guise of purity and God's mouthpiece. Both Reverend Dimmesdale and John Proctor act on their selfish natures by not bringing forward important information and prioritizing their reputations over many people's lives and trust.
During the beginning of The Crucible, the reader watches the first witch accusation of the town. The person who first accuses someone of being a witch is Abigail, who eventually is the leader of the group of girls accusing people of witchcraft. The person she accuses is Tituba, a slave in her household. Before Tituba is accused, Abigail is being questioned by some of the town's leaders about acts involving witchcraft her friends and she are rumored to have done. Her reputation is in jeopardy and some of the religious leaders are present, so when Tituba walks into the room Abigail uses her as a scapegoat for her actions: Mrs. Putnam enters with Tituba, and instantly Abigail points at Tituba. ABIGAIL: She made me do it! She made Betty do it! (40). This is an example of Abigail's self-preserving behavior. Immediately after Tituba walks into the room, Abigail places all the blame for her reprehensible behavior on Tituba. Abigail is being interrogated before Tituba enters the room, and she never once mentions being controlled by a witch or mentions Tituba's name. Tituba's arrival is convenient for Abigail, and in the spur of the moment, Abigail makes Tituba her scapegoat to save herself. Because of Abigail's accusation against Tituba, Tituba goes to court and at the end of the book is hanged because she is convicted of being a witch. The accusation surrounding Tituba leads to other townspeople's deaths as well. Tituba, like the others who were accused of being witches, is offered a deal where if she confesses to taking part in witchcraft and indicts other townspeople of the same crime, she can prevent her demise. Tituba is coerced by the town's religious leaders to confess, and eventually accuses others of being witches. This creates a domino effect because many of the people Tituba implicates take the same deal Tituba was offered and indict even more people. Mary Warren speaks on this deal, saying: But Mr. Proctor, they will not hang them if they confess(56). The court of Salem adopted the same system that caused Tituba to confess and condemn others early in the play before the accusations had run rampant. Like Abigail, the people who chose to take the deal sacrificed others to save themselves. The actions of Abigail and other accused townspeople were motivated by selfishness. And selfishness caused many of the accused people to lie and condemn others to the same fate. 
John Proctor and the townspeople from The Crucible and Dimmesdale from The Scarlet Letter all act in ways that violate the moral codes that the other people in their community generally stick to. The actions of these characters point to the notion that a person's morality is often abandoned when their life, reputation, or livelihood is threatened. This means that when a person acts in a way that deviates from the social code they generally follow, there might be an underlying threat to themselves that is the impetus behind their behavior. When someone commits a perceived moral transgression, there is a motivation behind that action. And when being judged for their moral transgression if their motivation is explained, it may affect how harsh the judgments they face will be.  If someone deviates from the moral code but has altruistic motivations and intentions, their actions may be judged less harshly. But since we know that selfishness can motivate perceived moral transgressions, a selfish motivation may also be the cause. If someone committed a perceived moral transgression and the people judging their action knew that they were motivated to act because of selfishness, their judgments may be affected by the deviants motivation. Selfish motivations will impact how a perceived moral transgression is judged. 
?Zo Marie Predmore 
Ananya Rabeya 
Math 200
19 November 2020
The United States voting system uses primary elections to eliminate candidates before the final election for president. This system uses, essentially, plurality voting with a form of run-off voting. This allows for citizens to get a fuller understanding of all the candidates and their beliefs/opinions before the Presidential election starts, as well as slowly eliminating all candidates until the final presidential elect is chosen. During the final election, the candidate who gets the majority of electoral college votes (not necessarily the popular vote of the citizens) wins the election. 
Now, though this may seem like a fair way to conduct elections, lets first take a look at third-party candidates. Now, the name third party is a bit deceiving, as any party thats not the democratic or republican party is labeled as so. This is because these two parties (democratic and republican) are seen as dominating parties, and, through years of these parties being predominant in the elections, many people now see voting for a third party as throwing away a vote, because a third party will never win, and now a democratic or republican candidate you like is not getting your vote. And, because of how the voting system works in America, these third party candidates get little to no accurate representation, and the cycle is perpetuated. 
In the article we read; Why Vote Third-Party? It talks about how our elections are basically staged, and how the goal of both democratic and republican parties is to incite fear in the citizens to get them to vote for whichever they fear less. The article also argues that the parties are, at their core, the same, and nothing much improves in the country depending on which party wins. Im not sure if I agree with all the points that this article makes, but I do think it would be interesting to see how the country would change if someone of a third party was to be elected. I also agree with the point that people from third parties are unrepresented, as I personally havent heard a lot about any third party. Perhaps a way this could be changed is by using a more proportionally representative system like a form of instant run-off voting with preference ballots, so if a person gets a certain percent of the vote they are elected. However, this goes against our system of government as we vote for one president, or congress(wo)man state by state, and not just a bunch of people from the country. However, if we somehow did use some sort of proportional representation, so that even when someone wins a majority other voices are still heard, this would help to secure more representation for people of third parties. This, in turn, will spread more information and get more people interested in third parties, and the cycle would be broken. I dont know how well people would respond to this, but many people dislike straying from what theyve always known, especially if it involves a change in the formation of our government. 
In conclusion, our governments system of voting is rather flawed in the fact that its been dominated for a long time by two status quo parties, and the under-representation of third party candidates only preserves the cycle in which they are ignored. If our voting system were to, perhaps, use a form of instant run-off voting this might help to achieve more proportional representation, and would solve the problem of the two-party domination in this country. 
https://www.khanacademy.org/humanities/us-government-and-civics/us-gov-political-participation/us-gov-third-party-politics/v/third-parties-in-the-united-states
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=whYFjkCZHI8
https://satyagraha.wordpress.com/2008/01/07/why-vote-third-party/
  ?The problem being solved
The problem that I am solving isn't a specific equation but rather how writing code to solve a taylor or maclaurin series would work.
The application in general
The use of a taylor series is to approximate something that isn't exact, for instance, E=mc^2 isnt 100% accurate in describing the amount of energy that any given amount of matter equates to. In order for a slightly more accurate approximation to be made, we can use a taylor series to increase the accuracy of the formula as can be seen below:
So how can we use python to create a series?
Python is regarded as an easier language to understand because its more user friendly and requires less knowledge of the syntax in order to code with it. But I will be explaining a few things about the language on the way just to make it more understandable. I'll show how we can code not only a taylor series but also a maclaurin series (where x=0) and even where x= any value. However, for these examples Ill just be using e^x to make things as simple as possible.
e^x coded:
We can already know what a taylor series for e^x looks like:
But actually approximating all of that and using a calculator where you press the buttons physically is boring. So this is why we can just write a bit of python to do it for us!
The main idea of using code to calculate a taylor series is so that we can instantly calculate any term from the series with any value on command.
Step one:
First of all, in order to make a taylor series we will have to use factorial and in order to code that into Python we need to import the module from its library
Step two:
Now we need to define the function. The code below defines that there is an x variable and an
n. The reason that we set our e approximation to equal 0 here is so that later it doesn't mess up the calculations, don't worry it's fine probably.
Step Three:
The next step is to make it so that we can calculate any value n with any value x. In order to do this we will have to use something called for loop in python. What the code on line 7 means is that we repeat the line below it n number of times.
(The x and n input things are just so that you can input the values for x and n, I forgot to add them at the beginning)
Step four:
Bellow is a table of values in the taylor series of e^x and how they would look coded into python:
This is why earlier we set e_approx = 0 because when you use the += operation, it would add
e_approx onto the x**i/math.factorial(i) and end up changing the value.
Finally, we return the definition of the function func_e and set the out variable to func_e and then print the final result.
The code in action:
https://youtu.be/O2qCv8cNKz4
Conclusion: The code that I wrote specifically isn't necessarily the most useful but it does prove that we can then write code for potentially more complex equations and approximations using the taylor series that we otherwise wouldnt be able to solve outright and the fact that its possible to can be a great help to mathematicians.
Thanks for reading!
Sources:
https://learning.edx.org/course/course-v1:HarvardX+CalcAPL1x+2T2020a/block-v1:HarvardX+C alcAPL1x+2T2020a+type@sequential+block@10f9d74327a3490191dff625fccf67e1/block-v1:Ha rvardX+CalcAPL1x+2T2020a+type@vertical+block@ea041c5641244fbb9b41fb26aa52063a https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kqtD5dpn9C8&t=1134s https://people.math.sc.edu/girardi/m142/handouts/10sTaylorPolySeries.pdf https://dsfabric.org/taylor-series-expansion-with-python